Disney Princess
Disney Princess is a franchise with a line-up of fictional female heroines who have appeared in various Disney animated feature films. Owned by the Walt Disney Company, and created in the mid-1990s.
The franchise currently comprises of twelve female protagonists from eleven different Walt Disney Animation Studios films and one Pixar film, who are either royal by birth, royal by marriage, or considered a "princess" due to their significant portrayal of heroism in their respective films.

The character line-up has varied since the creation of the franchise. Currently, the franchise is comprised of 12 members: Snow White, Cinderella, Aurora, Ariel, Belle, Jasmine, Pocahontas, Mulan, Tiana, Rapunzel, Merida, and Moana.[1]

The Disney Princesses are featured prominently through theme parks, dolls, jewelry and apparel, video games, and crossover feature films and television shows.

From 2012 to 2021, with the exception of those created after the Disney Renaissance, the Princesses are showcased in their enhanced and modified redesigned outfits instead of the ones that they wear in their own movies. The classic looks from their movies were brought back and enhanced for the Ultimate Princess Celebration event.
History
In the early 1990s, Disney Consumer Products realized the market potential for the female characters portrayed in the wildly successful Disney movies. Soon after realizing the demand, the Disney Princess franchise was launched.

In the mid-1990s the princesses began to be marketed together in the doll lines Perfume Princess, Musical Princess, and Dancing Princess.

On March 12, 1996, Walt Disney Records released the first compilation of the franchise: Princess Collection. The album went on to peak at #4 on Billboard's Top Kid Audio chart.[2]

The first issue of the Disney Princess Magazine was published on June 24, 1998 in the United Kingdom. Its slogan was "Every girl can be a Princess!". The launch of the magazine was supported by radio, press and retail promotions, including a cross-promotion with Mattel in Toys 'R' Us and with Panini stickers.[3][4]

The Princesses to be featured in the franchise were chosen from classic Disney films. The characters were not chosen specifically for their royal titles, but rather for how well they fit into what Disney executives deemed "the Princess mythology". Mulan is an example of this concept; she has no familial ties to royalty but is still included in the character list. Tinker Bell and Esmeralda were once included under the same principle before it was decided that they were not suited for the "mythology".[5][6] In 2005, though, Tinker Bell has starred in her own Disney franchise, the Disney Fairies. Other fairies were created specifically for the franchise. The line began with a book series by Gail Carson Levine and has since spawned toys, direct-to-video movies and other products based on the characters. At one point, Jane Porter, Giselle, Anna, and Elsa were considered to be included in the line-up, but weren't realized.

Character Background
The characters themselves, despite appearing in separate films, have distinct similarities. The Princesses show good will towards all creatures, evidenced by the common ability to communicate with animals. The Princesses are known for their inner and outer beauty, as well as having beautiful singing voices, apart from Merida, who only sings a song with her mother when she is little in her film, Brave.

Each Princess, excluding Merida and Moana, has a romance that is resolved by the end of her debut film. These charismatic girls carry a similar personality in their eras.

At the beginning with the first three (Snow White, Cinderella, and Aurora), their characteristics were well known as classy, graceful, and romantic daydreamers, who suffered from the actions caused by others. They held an inner strength through compassion, love, kindness and, particularly with Cinderella, a strong sense of resilience, without having to demonstrate the more masculine, proactive traits of the later Princesses.

Since the Renaissance Era, these popular heroines became more active than reactive with Ariel, Belle, Jasmine, Pocahontas, and Mulan. Their characteristics were known to be much more strong-willed, adventurous, feisty, cunning, and determined. As well their goals focused more on adventure and freedom than love, and these girls were more fighters for their dreams than the first three. They also existed in worlds which were more self-aware of the traditional and changing role of women; particularly Ariel, with her villainess assuring her that women on land should keep silent, Belle, with her villain assuring her that "it's not right for a woman to read", and Mulan, with her peers extolling masculine traits in addition to those of the ideal wife. The most recent ones - Tiana, Rapunzel, Merida, and Moana - are in the modern era; Tiana, an original character, is much more a realist than the others, she does not need nor want magic to make a dream come true but with only hard work, whereas Rapunzel is much more like the idealistic ones than Tiana.

Snow White, Aurora, Ariel, Jasmine, Rapunzel, and Merida are born of royal heritage as daughters of kings and queens. Pocahontas can be considered as being of royal heritage, as she is the daughter of a chief and considered Native American royalty by the English, as well as being called a princess in her film's sequel. Cinderella, Belle, and Tiana become royalty by marriage. Mulan was neither royal by birth or marriage, but is still included in the line-up due to her high status by saving China and receiving grace from the Emperor. Moana, herself, states that she is not a princess, but as daughter to a chief, the roles are similar. And just like Mulan, she received grace from Te Fiti for saving the world from destruction.

In the 2016 film Moana, Maui states that princesses have animal sidekicks. This has been evidently shown to be a common characteristic among the official members.

Members
Official members
1. Snow White
The character of Snow White first originated in 1937 from a Brothers Grimm fairy tale "Schneewittchen" about a beautiful German princess with a jealous stepmother. Walt Disney turned this classic fairy tale into his very first animated feature film. Her true love is the Prince, who breaks her sleeping death 'slumber' (caused by the Evil Queen) with love's first kiss. She befriends the seven dwarfs during her stay at their cottage. At age 14, she is the youngest of the Princesses.
2. Cinderella

Based on the most known version of Cinderella stories, "Cendrillon" by Charles Perrault in 1697. In 1950, it was turned into an animated feature-length film by Walt Disney. Cinderella is the eldest of all the Disney Princesses. Her stepmother turned her into the family's sole servant after the death of her father. With magical help from her Fairy Godmother, she attends a royal ball and meets Prince Charming, and eventually marries him, thus freeing herself from her life of servitude. In the two sequels; "Dreams Come True" and "A Twist In Time", Cinderella also manages to repair her relationship with her younger stepsister Anastasia and help her find true love. Cinderella is often considered the leader of the Princesses; often being put in the center of the group shots, and having also been deemed Walt Disney's personal favorite heroine.

3. Aurora
Best known as the heroine of the 1959 animated classic Sleeping Beauty, which is based on Charles Perrault's "La Belle au Bois Dormant". Although her dress changes from blue to pink thanks to a disagreement between two of her guardians, Merryweather and Flora, outside the film, she is most commonly seen wearing pink. She was cursed at birth to die before the sun sets on her 16th birthday by the evil fairy Maleficent by pricking her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel. One of the three good fairies, Merryweather, was able to weaken the curse by changing death to a deep slumber that could only be awakened by true love's kiss. By falling in love with Prince Phillip, the prince of a neighboring kingdom (and unknown to either of them, her betrothed), she was freed from the curse. Aurora is shown to be one of the taller princesses in the franchise.

4. Ariel
The heroine of the 1989 film, based on the Danish fairy tale "Den Lille Havfrue" by Hans Christian Andersen, and the daughter of King Triton, ruler of the sea. Ariel is a 16-year-old mermaid who falls in love with a dashing human Prince Eric, an extension of her fascination with all things from the surface world. Her dream is to live a life on land. So it comes as no surprise when her dream causes her to fall victim to accepting a shady offer from Ursula the Sea Witch promising her a lifetime of happiness with Prince Eric as long as she carries out the rules outlined in the signed, binding contract. Ursula persuades her to trade her beautiful voice, in exchange for becoming a human for three days. During these three days, Ariel must not only make Prince Eric fall in love with her, but the two must seal their love with a kiss. If Ariel is unable to uphold her end of the agreement, she must return to the sea to live out her days in Ursula's lair as a prisoner, joining the many other "lost souls" that have fallen victim to Ursula's "wish granting" over the years. However, Ariel is able to defeat Ursula with Eric's help and thanks to her father, she becomes human permanently and marries Eric at the end of the film.

Hans Christian Andersen's original character dissolves into foam on the sea after the prince marries someone else, but through an act of compassion is transformed into a spirit of the air. Co-director Ron Clements felt the story was too tragic, and changed the original character from the tragic but hopeful heroine to the brave and resourceful Ariel.

5. Belle
The French commoner who is the heroine of the 1991 animated classic Beauty and the Beast, is based on the French fairy tale "La Belle et la Bête" by Gabrielle-Suzanne de Villeneuve which was abridged by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont. The name Belle translates from the French word for "beauty". In the film, she selflessly trades in her freedom, for that of her father's, in a bargain with the Beast, thus becoming his prisoner/guest. She soon learns to see the good hidden behind his hideous appearance and rough manner and eventually, over time, falling in love with him. By confessing her love at the end of the movie, she breaks the curse placed on him by the enchantress. The Beast and his staff are then restored to their human forms, and Belle became his princess.
6. Jasmine
The spunky, independent Arabian Princess of Agrabah, who dreams of seeing what's beyond her palace and be freed from her father's constant pestering of arranged royal marriage. She falls in love with Aladdin, a street rat, and falls in love with him again after he makes a wish from a Genie to become a prince. Though Jasmine did not recognize Aladdin in his prince disguise, she fell in love due to him seeing her as a person and for him having a good heart. After Aladdin reveals his true identity and saves Jasmine and her kingdom from Jafar, Jasmine's father removes the royal law so Jasmine can be with Aladdin, whom she eventually marries.
She is based on Princess Badroulbadour (Arabic بدر البدور, badru l-budūr, "full moon of full moons") featured in the story of "Aladdin and his Wonderful Lamp" from "One Thousand and One Nights" of Scheherazade. Interestingly, the original story took place in China and not the Middle East.

7. Pocahontas
Disney's Pocahontas is based on the real life Native American "princess" of the Powhatan tribe (a name also borne by her father, the chief). Her real name was Matoaka since Pocahontas was her nickname and meant 'Playful One'. She is a free spirit, which she gets from her deceased mother. Pocahontas wants to choose her own path and doesn't want to marry her father's choice for a husband, Kocoum. Once the English settlers arrive, she teaches a man named John Smith about nature and her culture. The two later fall in love. Once John is taken prisoner, Pocahontas helps prevent a war from commencing between their people. At the end of the film, John is wounded and sent back to London for treatment, where Pocahontas remains in her village to look after her people. She is the first woman of color to be the protagonist of her respective film, along with being voiced by an actor of the same ethnicity. She is also the first princess to choose her people over the lover in the end of her feature film.

8. Mulan
Fa Mulan (or simply Mulan) is a brave heroine who impersonates a male soldier to fight for the Chinese Imperial Army in order to protect her ailing father who would have been required to go if she had not gone in his place. Mulan pretends to be her father's son, Ping, risking death, and dishonor if she is discovered. Joining a struggling troop of rookies led by Captain Li Shang (or simply Shang), "Ping" is the driving force behind the troop's dramatic change into respectable soldiers. "Ping" is admired by everyone until "he" is injured during the battle and requires medical care, resulting in the outing of "his" secret. Since "Ping" had saved Shang's life, Shang repays his debt and spares Mulan's life. No longer allowed in the Imperial Army, Mulan goes rogue and defeats the leader of the Hun army, Shan Yu. The Chinese Emperor praises Mulan, recognizing her as a hero for saving China and for bringing honor to her family. Mulan is welcomed back into her home with loving, open arms. Shang arrives at Mulan's home shortly after her return, and the two's feelings for each other are made known.
The character of Mulan is based on the heroine from the well-known ancient Chinese poem "The Ballad of Mulan" (木蘭詩). She is the only Disney Princess who is not royal by blood or marriage. However, she has been bestowed the honor of a being an official Disney Princess because of her popularity as well as what she represents. The film is praised for its cultural authenticity and prevailing messages including family, love, courage, and most notably, the empowerment and equal rights of women.

9. Tiana
Inspired on the princess from the novel "The Frog Princess" by E.D Baker which in turn inspired by a fairy tale "The Frog Prince" by the Brothers Grimm, Tiana is the heroine of the 2009 animated film The Princess and the Frog, and is the first African-American princess. She dreams of opening her own restaurant through hard work. By kissing Prince Naveen in frog form, she is turned into a frog because she kissed him for material gain, not love, and the magic can only be broken by a princess, so they are forced to set on a journey to find a way to undo the magic. Eventually, she finds herself falling for the handsome but spoiled prince who manages to change his ways, and willingly gives up her desires wants to be with him. By marrying the prince, Tiana becomes a real princess, and with her love, breaks the spell with a kiss. They finally open their own restaurant at the end of the film.
Tiana officially became a member of the Disney Princess line-up on March 14, 2010, at the New York Palace Hotel in Manhattan, New York City.

10. Rapunzel
The heroine from the animated feature Tangled is based on the German title character from the Brothers Grimm fairy tale "Rapunzel". Her long hair, which is said to measure 70 feet (21 metres) in length, not only has magical healing powers but can be used as a weapon. Given the power by a magic golden flower, Mother Gothel kidnaps her as an infant to use her power to keep herself young. 18 years later, Rapunzel sneaks away from her tower with a thief, Flynn Rider, and sets on her own journey to find the flying lanterns that float into the sky every year on her birthday. Along the journey, Rapunzel falls in love with Flynn who starts revealing the caring individual he is behind his roguish personality while slowly discovering her true identity as a princess. To free her from Gothel's clutches, Flynn cuts her hair, thus destroying her power, and she is returned to her family before she eventually marries Flynn. Rapunzel was "officially welcomed into the Disney Princess Royal Court" during a promotional event at Kensington Palace in London on October 2, 2011.

11. Merida
Merida is the 16-year-old daughter of Queen Elinor, who rules the kingdom alongside her husband, King Fergus. Queen Elinor's expectations and demands of her daughter make Merida see Elinor as being cold, unfeeling, and distant, causing friction between the two. Despite Elinor's desire to see Merida as a proper royal lady, Merida is an impetuous girl with wild, unruly ginger hair and a passionate desire to take control of her own destiny. Merida has honed her skill with the bow and is the most skilled archers in her kingdom. She is also well-trained in sword-fighting and an expert horsewoman, riding wildly across the countryside on her horse, Angus.
When Merida comes of age to have her hand in marriage, Merida becomes determined to not be forced into marriage, where her actions nearly cause a war between the kingdom and the three clans. After a heated argument with her mother, Merida visits a witch who grants her a spell to change her fate. Merida uses the spell on Elinor in an attempt to make her change her mind about the marriage, only to turn Elinor into a bear. As the two work together in finding a way to break the curse, they manage to rekindle their bond and Merida manages to resolve peace between her kingdom and the clans without being forced into marriage. After preventing a war and the defeat of the demon bear Mor'du, Merida breaks the spell by reconciling with her mother, who becomes human again and the two remain closer than ever before.

She is the first princess from a Pixar film, the first original princess in the line-up that is not inspired by either literature (Snow White, Cinderella, etc.) or real life (Pocahontas, Mulan) works, and the first without a love interest. She also never sings a major song, thus breaking away the traditional line-up, though as a child, she sang a small verse of a song in Gaelic with her mother, and Merida's rich Scottish brogue makes her the second Disney Princess with an accent other than Standard American or British. Merida officially joined the Disney Princess court on May 11, 2013, at Walt Disney World's Cinderella Castle.

12. Moana
The daughter of Motunui's village chief, Moana was chosen by the Ocean to restore the Heart of Te Fiti and save her island from a life-killing darkness. Due to an ancient law upheld by her father, Chief Tui, Moana is forbidden from ever going beyond the reef. She eventually finds the courage to do so, with the help of a powerful demigod named Maui, and the guidance of her Gramma Tala. In restoring Te Fiti's lost heart, the world is freed of darkness, allowing Moana's people to voyage the seas as freely as they please.
The fourth Princess to come from the minds of John Musker and Ron Clements (Ariel, Jasmine, and Tiana), Moana is one of the few Disney Princesses not to be based on a preexisting character. Rather, her story—save for real-world ties to South Pacific mythology—is almost wholly original. Furthermore, unlike her most recent predecessors, Moana was not inducted with a coronation event. Instead, she was slowly integrated via Disney Princess marketing such as books, social media posts, and toylines following the release of her film, before being added as a member to the franchise's official website in 2019.

Snow White
“Lips red as the rose. Hair black as ebony. Skin white as snow.”
―The Magic Mirror describing Snow White
Snow White is the titular protagonist of Disney's first animated feature-length film, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. She is a young princess; the "Fairest One of All", whose beauty is defined by her inherent kindness and purity.

Shortly after discovering love in a charming Prince, Snow White learns that her jealous stepmother, The Evil Queen, is determined to kill her. Snow White forcibly runs away from home to escape the Queen's wrath, but finds shelter in the cottage of seven dwarfs. Now a refugee, Snow White dreams of reuniting with her prince and living happily ever after.

Snow White is the first member of the Disney Princess line-up. Her character provided the basis for later heroines in Disney fairy tales such as Cinderella, and Aurora from Sleeping Beauty. Many of Snow White's traits — such as her royal lineage, friendly relationship with animals, and propensity for singing — continue to inspire both heroes and heroines in Disney animation to this day.

Background
Born as a princess by birth, Snow White lived with her royal family in a castle faraway. But her mother died shortly after she was born. After some time, her father, the King, remarried a vain and cold-hearted Queen. Not long after their marriage, Snow White's beloved father suspiciously died, leaving the young princess as an orphan.

As a young child, Snow White's vain and wicked stepmother feared that one day Snow White's beauty would surpass her own. So, she dressed Snow White in rags and forced her to work as a scullery maid to try to quench her growing beauty. Each day, the Queen consulted her magic mirror asking, "Magic Mirror on the wall, who is the fairest one of all?" As long as the Mirror answered, "You are the fairest one of all," Snow White was safe from her stepmother's cruel jealousy. Snow White may have been a maid, but she never complained when she worked and whenever she was sad she would always hum a tune to cheer herself up and her animal friends would visit. The people of the kingdom felt sorry for their princess when the Evil Queen made her a servant, but they could not rebel due to the Queen's power.

Development
Design
The design and characterization of Snow White were influenced by both the heroine of traditional European romantic fairy tales and the popular Hollywood heroine. Early designs showing Snow White with blonde hair suggest Eugene Grasset's depiction of the goddess of spring in Le Printemps as another influence; like Disney's Snow White, Grasset's goddess is closely connected to nature, and, as in one of Grasset's studies for the piece, Snow White entertains animals with music.

Snow White's design was supervised by Grim Natwick, an animator who had previously developed and worked on Betty Boop at the Fleischer Studio. Early designs for the character resemble Betty Boop, and some appear to be caricatures of famous actresses such as Zasu Pits; however, Snow White's appearance, like the Queen's became less and less caricatured. For example, Hamilton Luske's first design for Snow White depicted her as a slightly awkward, gangly teenager. This design could easily have been animated without the use of live-action reference, but Walt Disney had a different idea in his mind; the character ultimately was designed to be older, and more realistic-looking. In order for Snow White to better relate onscreen to the Seven Dwarfs, however, it was decided that her head being slightly larger than normal. The ink and paint women felt that Snow White's black hair was too unnatural and harsh, so dry brushed wisps of light gray over the top of each cell.

Animation
Marge Bell (who would later become Marge Champion) performed live-action reference for the animation of Snow White, directed by Hamilton Luske. When it was decided that Snow White should have a slightly larger head than normal, Bell was made to wear a football helmet to make her head appear larger. This was stopped after 5 minutes, as Bell found it impossible to perform ande-action reference while wearing the helmet.

Staging
The scene in which Snow White kisses Grumpy, and Grumpy's subsequent reaction, was inspired by a sketch by Albert Hurter, as was the scene in which Snow White, after being poisoned, lies in a bed surrounded by the weeping dwarfs. For the latter, Walt Disney made reference in a story meeting to a then-recent film adaptation of Romeo and Juliet, suggesting that light appears to shine from her as the dwarfs and animals mourn around her. In this same story meeting, Dick Creedon suggested that the rain outside the cottage of the Seven Dwarfs be used to suggest tears, weeping for the princess.

Personality
Snow White is well known for her kindness and optimism — both of which act as her greatest strengths, as they've guided her safely through the various hardships faced throughout her life. She is quick to charm, winning the trust and admiration of the Prince, forest animals, and the Seven Dwarfs rather quickly, proving her kindness, and pleasant aura makes her a beloved figure. Considered as the "Fairest One of All", Snow White's beauty lies both within her physical appearance and pure heart. With no negativity within her, Snow White is the physical embodiment of positivity and innocence.

She can also be playful and somewhat sassy, as she takes advantage of Grumpy's sour disposition and initial dislike for her by teasing him. She largely ignores Grumpy’s rude remarks, responding only with a soft smile or cheery glow as a means of annoying him.

Though generally childlike and gentle, Snow White can also be assertive, with the authoritative nature of a mother. Once she takes residence in the cottage of the Seven Dwarfs, Snow White takes control of the household, turning it from an unkempt hovel to a clean and humble environment. She furthered her authority by giving the dwarfs a designated bedtime, as well as persuading them to wash in order to eat dinner, and despite some initial reluctance from the Dwarves, they were ultimately unable to bypass Snow White's firm but kind attitude. In addition, she showed leadership potential when guiding the animals around the house during their cleaning session, successfully instructing them on how to best clean the house and various items inside.

Having been turned into a slave in her own home by the Evil Queen at a relatively early age, Snow White is hard-working. Despite her servant work being forced upon, she was shown to be efficient with her chores. In the dwarfs' cottage, she didn't hesitate to clean the household upon discovering how filthy it was, never minding the work that had to be put into such a task. She doesn't take her blessings of finding shelter in the dwarfs' cottage for granted, instead deciding to work for her residence.

Snow White’s greatest flaw is also her greatest strength. Due to her strong sense of kindness and goodwill toward others, the princess can at times be unwary and easily manipulated. Her empathy for a seemingly harmless crone led Snow White to disregard the dwarfs’ orders to avoid strangers at all costs. This would result in Snow White’s downfall. However, as mentioned above, her loving heart is ultimately able to prevail, as her mutual love for the Prince ultimately saves her life. This exemplifies both the dangers and advantages of having a kind heart.

Physical appearance
Snow White is a teenage girl blessed with beauty so flawless and enchanting she is the "fairest in the land." The phrase "lips red as the rose, hair black as ebony, and skin white as snow" describes her most notable features, being her rosy red lips and rosy cheeks, and both her hair and skin color. Being fairly short in height, Snow White has a rather slender, flat-chested figure and dainty little feet.

Her simple signature court dress consists of a dark blue bodice with a high white collar; her short puffy sleeves are a lighter blue color than her bodice, and the red cloth poking through exemplifying the "slashing" design, which was very fashionable in Tudor times. It involved cutting the cloth outside the outfit and pulling through another layer of cloth from underneath. The long and shapeless light yellow skirt has a white petticoat and flows right down to her ankles with tan pumps decorated with yellow bows. In the film and most of the franchise, she also wears a brown cape with a red interior. Snow White's short black hair is styled in a bob and parted in the middle. She wears a red headband with a bow.

As a scullery maid before wearing her signature appearance, Snow White wears a short white-collared and puffy white-sleeved brown bodice and a long, light brown skirt with several patches on it, with light brown clogs and lilac-pink stockings. She wears a blue headband with a bow.

Cinderella
“Cinderella, you're as lovely as your name
Cinderella, you're a sunset in a frame
Though you're dressed in rags, you wear an air of queenly grace
Anyone can see a throne would be your proper place.”
―Lyrics to the original film's opening song[src]
Cinderella is the titular protagonist of Disney's 1950 animated feature film of the same name. After the death of her mother, her father remarried, believing that she "needed a mother's care". He died shortly thereafter, upon which she was forced to work as a scullery maid for her wicked stepmother, Lady Tremaine and two stepsisters, Anastasia and Drizella.

Despite the cruelty of her jealous stepfamily, Cinderella remained kind, spirited, and internally beautiful. Her faith and everlasting optimism manifested itself into a Fairy Godmother, whose magic served as a catalyst for Cinderella's ascent from servant to princess.

Cinderella is the second official member of the Disney Princess line-up, preceded by Snow White.
Background
Cinderella was born to wealthy, unnamed parents who treated their daughter with great love. The family resided in a French château, just beyond a small- but powerful- kingdom. Sometime during her childhood, Cinderella's mother tragically passed away, and as a result of believing his daughter needed a mother figure in her life, Cinderella's father remarried a woman named Lady Tremaine, who notably had two daughters of her own, both around Cinderella's age: Anastasia and Drizella. After the death of her father, Cinderella was under the control of Lady Tremaine, whose true colors finally surfaced, showing a cruel and cold-hearted woman. Her selfishness and vanity destroyed both the family fortune and left the once beautiful château in a state of disrepair. While pampering her own two daughters and spoiling them rotten, she raised Cinderella in abuse and virtual slavery. This was a result of being wickedly jealous of the young girl's natural beauty and charm, which she and her own daughters all lacked. This went on for many years, but Cinderella's personality remained sweet, humble, and kind.

Official Description
Cinderella is kind to all, especially her mice friends, Jaq and Gus. She has faith that if you keep on believing, your wish will come true. With help from her fairy godmother, she gets a chance to live her dreams.
Development
The Disney version of Cinderella was based on the protagonist of the French version of the tale by Charles Perrault, "Cinderella", written in 1698.

Cinderella was animated by Marc Davis and Eric Larson, but the two animators did not have the same perception of the character, accentuating the elegance of Davis and Larson's opting for simplicity. This resulted in Cinderella being a more complicated character than her predecessor Snow White, due to her duality. As done with other Disney films, Walt Disney hired actress Helene Stanley to perform the live-action reference for Cinderella. She later was asked to do the same kind of work for the characters of Aurora in Sleeping Beauty and Anita Radcliffe in One Hundred and One Dalmatians.

According to Christopher Finch, the author of The Art of Walt Disney:

“	Disney insisted that all scenes involving human characters should be shot first in live-action to determine that they would work before the expensive business of animation was permitted to start. The animators did not like this way of working, feeling it detracted from their ability to create the character. The animators understood the necessity for this approach and in retrospect acknowledged that Disney had handled things with considerable subtlety.	”
Voice
About 400 contestants auditioned for the role of Cinderella. Out of all of them, Walt Disney chose Ilene Woods, who worked on the radio at the time and did not know anything about the audition itself. One day, her colleagues Mack David and Jerry Livingston asked her to sing a song from Cinderella, and she agreed. Then, without saying a word to her, friends of Ilene transferred to the office of film at Disney. After listening to the material, Walt Disney immediately decided that he had found the voice with which to speak and sing its main character, and contacted Ilene.

When casting for Cinderella II: Dreams Come True in 1999, Jennifer Hale was selected as Woods was deemed too old to be able to produce the sweetness needed for Cinderella. Hale has been the main voice of Cinderella since the House of Mouse debuted in 2001.

Personality
“Yet, through it all, Cinderella remained ever gentle and kind, for with each dawn she found new hope that someday, her dreams of happiness would come true.”
―Opening narration[src]
Despite being raised in toxicity and emotional abuse, Cinderella declared herself independent and strong-willed by remaining kind-hearted and self-loving, unlike her cruel stepfamily, not allowing the bitterness surrounding her life to overtake her and morph her into someone as cruel as her stepfamily. She makes the most of her misfortunes by remaining optimistic of the possibilities of a brighter future, keeping herself preoccupied with enforced housework and friendly bonds built with her pets, birds, and dozens of mice that have found themselves trapped over the years by Tremaine's mouse traps, only to be rescued and spared by Cinderella. In gratitude, the birds and mice would become loyal companions to Cinderella, providing her with company and serving as diligent helpers should something troubling occur. The particular devotion of the mice would ultimately play a crucial role in the young woman escaping her abusive household, thus furthering the example of how Cinderella's evergreen kindness towards others, despite her situation, would ultimately lead to her uprising.

As assumed, Cinderella's primary goal in life was to escape her stepfamily (though her dreams and other goals also seemed to be of romance, especially with the lyrics from "So This is Love" where Cinderella and the Prince sing, "So this is the miracle that I've been dreaming of.") However, as she was under Lady Tremaine's control since her childhood when her father passed away, such a feat proved to be difficult, with the emotional abuse and manipulation having been planted in Cinderella's mind for far too many years, making for an obedient and fearful young woman when faced with Tremaine's wrath; she would typically make attempts to avoid any form of conflict with her stepmother and stepsisters as a direct result of this.

Cinderella is also witty and sarcastic, at least when she is alone, and during those moments she would often make quips regarding her stepfamily's laziness, lack of talent, and over-dependence on her. She is also unafraid to stand up for herself when she feels she's in the right - or at least attempt to do so, especially seen when she stands up for herself as being able to go to the ball, and though she strives to contain her optimistic aura, she can fall into fits of frustration and annoyance quite often. This is seen through her interactions with Lady Tremaine's cat, Lucifer, who she sarcastically refers to as "Your Highness" and "Your Majesty", and openly berates for his cruelty, which mirrors that of her cruel stepmother. Her daily goal is to make the most of her situation, but she never forces herself to bottle up her true emotions in an unhealthy manner; instead, wisely keeping them under control, while also keeping in mind that the future holds brighter experiences. She also is shown to have some degree of common sense, as after Drizella and Anastasia rushed to Lady Tremaine in fear about how Cinderella had allegedly put a mouse in their teacup, Cinderella, hearing the report, immediately deduced that it had been Lucifer who had actually been responsible, and forced him to reveal Gus, allowing Gus a quick escape.

In Cinderella III: A Twist in Time, Cinderella's hard-working ethics, optimism, kindness and devotion are put to the test when she is magically stripped away from her "happily ever after" by a vengeful and then magically-empowered Tremaine and is forced to jump into physical action to restore her happy life and relationship with Prince Charming and save Anastasia from her mother's cruel and vain influence when it becomes clear that she too is suffering. During these events, Cinderella is shown to be cunning, tactical, persistent, and a fierce rival to those who oppress her. With no magic, being forced to rely solely on her intelligence and fearlessness, Cinderella is able to defeat her stepmother, repair her relationship with a reformed Anastasia and retain her much-deserved life of happiness, proving both her independence and strong will.

Physical appearance
Cinderella is a beautiful young woman of average height, slender build, an hourglass figure, and a softly-shaped, kind face. Her skin is fair and flawless, her lips are pink, and her eyes are blue. Cinderella's hair is a beautiful strawberry-blonde (light strawberry-blonde in her childhood) and medium-length with soft bangs.

In her initial appearance before changing to her maid outfit, she wears a light blue long-sleeved collared nightgown adorned with a blue ribbon and black ballet flats from her maid outfit. Her strawberry-blonde hair is tied in two low pigtailed braids before removing the blue ribbons on each side to make it loose.

During the bath scene, when she removes her collared nightgown and being showered by her several bird friends using a wet sponge, Cinderella's hair is tied into a bun.

In most of her appearances, she was seen in a maid's outfit, which consisted of a dark brown bodice with long, light aquamarine sleeves and a brown, knee-length skirt. Her hair was softly tied back into a low ponytail with an aqua ribbon. She also wore a white apron and a pair of black ballet flats. On her occasional tasks, she wore a white apron and a scarf in her hair. At the near end of the movie, the sleeves of her maid outfit changed from light aquamarine to cyan, and her hair is now loose rather than a low ponytail. In later appearances in both sequels, Cinderella's maid outfit sleeves are now pale blue, and her hair remains loose.

For her first ball gown, modified from one that belonged to her late mother, she wore a frilly, sleeveless, pink-and-white dress with pink ribbons and a sash with jade beaded necklace before her stepsisters violently mess up with it after seeing their discarded items being sewn onto it. She also wears red dress shoes.

Her second dress and most commonly seen sleeveless dress is a sparkling light cornflower bluish-gray ball gown with a low-cut neckline, pale cornflower blue bustle, white-capped sleeves, white armpit length opera gloves, a delicate laced white petticoat (or petticoats), and glass slippers topped with sparkly hearts. (It should be noted, though, that the ball gown is often colored light powder blue in merchandise and later productions and was even digitally recolored as such in the original film's DVD and Blu-ray releases.) Her hair is pulled up into a variation of a French twist complimented with a very light cornflower blue band over it with large gems on both ends of the band (in recent merchandise, the two gems of the band have been replaced with diamond earrings). She also wears a simple black choker around her neck.

Her wedding dress consists of a beautiful white dress and petticoat that exposed little cleavage. She uses her hair in a bun (though in the original film, we do not see where her bun is. In Cinderella III: A Twist in Time, we see it as a low bun) with a white tiara and a cap. Her veil is pulled back from her hair. The dress has long triangular sleeves, with a black choker around the neck (a white ribbon in Cinderella II), along with white dress shoes.

In Cinderella II: Dreams Come True, she wore a pink-and-white version of her original iconic Princess dress. While getting ready for the banquet in the same segment, she had to wear was a pink, formal, and rather puffy dress, with an elaborate hairstyle with several pink bows.

The dress she wears to the royal ball she arranges is a sea green/teal ball gown rather like her original, but with a corset attached to a flat triangular overskirt and a spiky-laced white petticoat. She has a simple black choker with emeralds hanging on it. Cinderella wears a more sea green version of her original headband and evening gloves. She also has the same French twist hairstyle from her original Princess dress.

In both "Aim to Please" and "Tail Tail", she wore a blue-and-white version of her maid outfit. During the party in "Tail Tail", she wore a yellow ball gown with the same French twist hairstyle from her original Princess dress.

In "An Uncommon Romance" she has the same maid outfit and princess dress from the original film.

In Cinderella III: A Twist in Time, Cinderella wore two wedding gowns along with her maid outfit. She also has two normal outfits at the beginning of the movie. In her initial appearance before Lady Tremaine altering the time using the Fairy Godmother's wand, Cinderella was seen in her normal outfit similar to her husband Prince Charming's; a light brown formal vest with a pale yellow long-sleeved collared shirt, cream-colored long skirt and brown heels. Her hair is left loose while wearing this outfit. Her other outfit which it was seen in her portrait with her husband, she was seen wearing a similar outfit as the first outfit as her formal vest is brown, her long skirt is gold with a light yellow petticoat as the length of the skirt covers her brown heels and has a matching light yellow tie on the collar.

While wearing her maid outfit when she is about to be banished whilst riding in the ship and being reunited with Prince Charming, her hair is loose to show her full fringes.

As she is about to be remarried by Prince Charming in their wedding, she wears the wedding gown at the end of the first film and was recolored to pale blue. When Lady Tremaine makes a spell on her, escaping away from Lucifer's human form by riding horseback to the wedding and protecting Anastasia when she refuses to marry Prince Charming before the Prince protects them from getting hit by a spell. Her wedding dress was in shreds like her first ball gown in the original film as the long sleeves became short sleeves, and she was in bare feet. Her hair is tied in a bun but in a messy look to show the fringes of her hair.

At the end of the film, her second dress is a white elaborate long-sleeved wedding gown with its V-neck line has three linings to show her cleavage. She also wears an elaborate diamond tiara along with a long sparkling wedding veil and white heels. The edge of the dress skirt from her wedding gown has diamond designs.

In the live-action film, Cinderella's outfits are somewhat different from those seen in the animated original film and its sequels. As a child, she wears a similar outfit from the original film, but is of turquoise blue and wears blue ballet flats.

Her maid outfit consists of a turquoise blue gown, maroon apron, and blue ballet flats. When Ella is exposed to dust and the ashes in the attic, her gown becomes in a moderate sense dirty, and her flats are becoming darkened from ashes, upon which her stepsisters mockingly call her "Cinderella".

When the girls around the kingdom are invited to the royal ball, Ella wears a pink gown that her late mother wore when Ella was young. Her dress is torn by her stepsisters when Tremaine wants to keep Ella at home as a servant. Her gown is modified by her Fairy Godmother and changes into vivid azure.

The glass slippers Ella receives have the appearance of shiny, reflective crystal.

When married to king Kit, she wears a cream wedding dress and white heels.

Abilities
Animal Empathy and Communication: Cinderella has a special ability to empathize with animals, perceive what they say and communicate with them.

Aurora
“She is indeed most wondrous fair. Gold of sunshine in her hair. Lips that shame the red, red rose. In ageless sleep, she finds repose.”
―Maleficent
Princess Aurora (also known as Briar Rose) is the protagonist of Disney's 1959 animated feature film, Sleeping Beauty. She is the daughter of King Stefan and Queen Leah. On the day of her christening, Aurora was cursed to die by the evil fairy Maleficent. Due to the efforts of three good fairies, the curse was altered to instead draw Aurora into a deep sleep that could only be broken by true love's kiss.

Aurora is the third official member of the Disney Princess line-up and is significant for being the last to be developed during Walt Disney's lifetime.
Background
Official Description
Aurora is gentle and loving, and is raised by three fairies named Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather. She lives in the forest, where she meets the Prince, her one true love.
Development
The original design for Aurora has developed by Tom Oreb, who based the figure of Aurora on Audrey Hepburn's thin frame and graceful demeanor. Later, Marc Davis worked on sketches of Oreb, improving the appearance and clothing of the heroine so that they were combined with angular forms of background images.

Marc Davis' wife, Alice, designed some of Aurora's costumes.[2] According to the designer, this was her first job at the Walt Disney Studios, during which she became Marc's wife in 1956.

As with other Disney films, an actress was hired as a live-action model, as a guide for the animators. Helene Stanley became the model for the heroine.[3] She had previously worked on this post, fulfilling the role of Cinderella.

Personality
Aurora is a kind, elegant, graceful, angelic, loving, and gentle person as well as a hopelessly romantic one. At first, she is seen as a slightly shy, playful and carefree young woman as a result of being sheltered for most of her life. Aurora is very loyal and honest to her "aunts" and usually obeys their rules respectfully, even though she may disagree with them. Since she was raised not to talk to strangers, Aurora was naturally startled and apprehensive when the handsome Prince Phillip appeared in the forest. However, she was drawn to him before remembering her aunts' rule about not talking to strangers. Aurora then compromised in agreeing to talk to him by arranging to meet him at her cottage, under the supervision of her aunts.

Despite her innocence and apparent dependence on others' actions and opinions, Aurora isn't as passive or helpless as she may seem at first sight. For example, she's rather annoyed by how Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather, despite Aurora's adolescence, treat her like a little child, which gives a hint that Aurora, in fact, is prone to independence and not willing to rely purely on somebody's opinion. Also, she's actually quite selfless and strong-willed. When Aurora finds out about her real background as a princess and realizes that she can't see her beloved man anymore, she, although deeply upset, shows firmness and loyalty to those that she cares about. Aurora agrees to push her feelings away and do what is right: return home and fulfill her royal duty as a princess, even if she has to marry a man she doesn't love and barely knows in that way.

In later media, Aurora is shown to have greatly matured and become far more self-assured, proactive and independent and responsible, as well as confident in her opinions and abilities.

Physical appearance
“One gift, beauty rare
Gold of sunshine in her hair
Lips that shame the red, red rose
She'll walk with springtime wherever she goes!”
―Presenting the Gift of Beauty
Aurora is a supremely beautiful young woman, who was magically blessed with waist-length, wavy, golden hair like sunshine, violet eyes, and lips that shame the red rose. She has a tall, slender figure and her skin is fair and flawless. Unlike the Disney Princesses created before her, Snow White and Cinderella, and even the others created after such as Ariel, Rapunzel and Moana for example, her face is less rounded and more angular and refined, giving her an appearance of maturity rather than youth despite being only sixteen.

As a peasant, she wears a black bodice over a gray long-sleeved calf-length frock with a white petticoat and goes barefoot. She wears a black headband and carries a purple shawl when going out.

As her princess self, she wears a pink or blue ball gown with a petal overskirt, a ruffled white petticoat, and long triangular sleeves, a golden tiara, and blue or pink shoes. During the original film, Flora and Merryweather fight for the colors of her ball gown either in pink or blue, even at the end of the film where Aurora dances with Prince Phillip in a ballroom dance. The dress is blue for most of the original film, but in later appearances and merchandise, Aurora's ball gown is depicted as pink.

Abilities
In Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams, Aurora was given a magic wand from Merryweather to use, and Aurora was able to wield its magical powers such as making two stacks of papers pick themselves up, transforming her nightgown into a ball gown with a dazzling necklace, matching earrings, and a jeweled tiara. She summoned chickens and cows and temporarily turned a man into a duck. Later in the story, Aurora fixed her problems and gave away the cows to peasants. At the end of the story, she returned the wand to Merryweather, having learned she shouldn't have taken the easy way out.

In the original film, despite Aurora having been enchanted by Maleficent, Aurora's willpower combined with shouts from the fairies temporarily gave her the strength to regain control of herself for a few seconds before pricking her finger on the spinning wheel's spindle and falling into a deep sleep.

Ariel
“A girl rescued me. She was singing. She had the most beautiful voice.”
―Prince Eric talking about Ariel
Ariel is the protagonist of Disney's 1989 animated feature film, The Little Mermaid. She is the seventh and youngest daughter of King Triton and Queen Athena, rulers of the undersea kingdom of Atlantica. Ariel lived through much of her young life with a passionate - yet forbidden - admiration of the human world, and longed to someday experience life on the surface.

Ariel is loosely based on the nameless protagonist of the Danish fairy tale "The Little Mermaid" by Hans Christian Andersen, but unlike the Andersen tale in which the mermaid loses her prince and dies, the Disney adaptation features a happy ending.

Ariel is the fourth official member of the Disney Princess line-up. She is also the first Disney Princess to be developed after Walt Disney's lifetime, having been conceived over two decades after his passing in 1966. Incidentally, Disney himself made efforts to adapt The Little Mermaid in the late 1930s, and early 40s. She is the first Disney Princess to be developed during the Disney Renaissance.
Background
Official Description
Ariel is an independent, headstrong, and determined young mermaid. She is the youngest and prettiest princess of the sea, but spends most of her time outside the palace walls of Atlantica singing, daydreaming, and adventuring with her best friend, Flounder the guppy fish, and sometimes Sebastian the crab, who is also the royal adviser to Ariel's father. At the age of 16, she unexpectedly becomes deeply infatuated with a young and handsome human prince named Eric and sacrifices all things dear to her for the chance of being with her one true love.
Development
Walt Disney himself and artist Kay Nielsen began work on the story of The Little Mermaid in the 1930s and early 40s. The feature was to be a very faithful adaption to Hans Christian Andersen's tale with the Mermaid dying and turning into sea foam in the end. However, after writing the script and illustrating the storyboard the project was shelved to focus on other projects also in the works such as Dumbo, Bambi, and Fantasia. There have been alternate statements, however, that indicated that Disney may have intended to go for the happy ending route.

In the mid-1980s, the project was finally reopened, yet Disney decided to disregard the dark and grimy aspects of Andersen's story and make the film a more child-friendly version with a much happier ending which worked better for the company's brand. However, the development team indicated that the changes given for the film coincidentally matched up with the changes Walt Disney made during his attempted take on the film. During development, the studio officially gave their Little Mermaid the aquatic-like name of "Ariel".

Ariel's original design was developed by animator Glen Keane, who had reportedly said in an animation lecture that she was based on his own wife. Her appearance was also based on model Sherri Stoner, who provided live-action references for the animators during the development of the film and also inspired the look for Belle. A challenge in animating her for the film was the color required to show her in the changing environments, both under the sea and on land, for which the animators required 32-color models, not including costume changes. The sea-green color of her mermaid tail was a hue specially mixed by the Disney paint lab; the color was named "Ariel" after the character. She has been compared to past Disney heroines from Walt Disney's lifetime, but is more physically similar to Alice from Alice in Wonderland and Belle from Beauty and the Beast, as they all have big eyes, a broad forehead and a small mouth and chin.

Voice
Jodi Benson, who was predominantly a stage actress when she was cast, was chosen to voice Ariel because the directors felt "it was really important to have the same person doing the singing and speaking voice." Co-director Ron Clements remarked that her voice had "sweetness" and "youthfulness" that was unique. When recording the vocals for Ariel's theme song "Part of Your World", she consented to Howard Ashman's suggestion that the lights in the studio be dimmed, to "feel a bit more enclosed" and create the feeling of being deep under the sea. She was also encouraged to soften her singing voice almost to the point of speaking so that the song would feel more intimate. Benson has remained as the main voice of Ariel since.

Voice actress Melissa Fahn auditioned for the role and was called back many times, but was turned down because she sounded slightly too young.

Personality
Ariel is a bright, spirited, and headstrong mermaid princess with a strong passion for adventure and exploration. Her tendency to explore the more mysterious depths of the ocean (or more importantly, the world beyond the ocean) can lead to an array of problems to both herself and her friends, and in the confines of her personal life - as seen when she gets into an argument with her overprotective father, King Triton. Despite this, Ariel's selflessness, compassion, and intuitive way of thinking often resolve such problems, as she always takes full responsibility for her actions.

At the start of the original film, Ariel is shown to have a burning obsession with the human world and a desire to learn more about their culture. Unlike her father at first, she views humans as aspiring creatures, astonished by their ability to constantly create, and heavily goes against the idea of them being "barbaric" and selfish as a result of this. This passion is revealed to have been prominent throughout Ariel's life years before the events of the film, as seen in the television series. By the point of the film, as seen through her lament, "Part of Your World", Ariel's obsession with the human world has reached unimaginable heights, as she spends most of her time focusing on finding, observing, and collecting various human objects that have sunk into the sea. Her obsession has also taken a toll on her emotionally, as the song begins with a sense of wonder and enchantment, ultimately climaxing in a soft end, filled with hopelessness and despair, representing Ariel's dying hopes of ever experiencing life upon the surface. These factors of desperation and despair are the prime motive behind Ariel's eventual deal with the sea witch, Ursula, to become human and experience the world above the surface. Despite not having the best relationship with her father, especially in regard to their respective views on humanity, she nonetheless was very loyal to him as well as her sisters, as after Ursula explained the deal to her, Ariel expressed some hesitance as she realized that if she succeeded in the deal (never mind if she failed her end of the bargain) she wouldn't be able to see Triton or her sisters again, and later when Ursula cursed Triton, Ariel's first action was to attack Ursula to avenge him, even calling the sea witch a monster for what she did.

Ariel is extremely compassionate and loving towards almost all living things; more so platonically than romantically. This is most notably seen through her friendship with her closest companion, Flounder, and even her father's court composer, Sebastian, who, despite being against Ariel's recklessness and overly adventurous nature, is given a considerably large amount of love and respect from the princess, which is often reciprocated. With Flounder, she is comforting and patient, as well as protective, with the tendency to risk her own life for the guppies on various occasions. Her ability to befriend all various creatures, which be an abandoned killer whale, an irrationally feared sea creature. and even the son of one of her nemesis are displayed throughout the franchise. Before she met Eric, she was rarely interested in romantic relationships, not even with any of the merman princes that Triton tried to get her to marry. The only known exception was Prince Waverly of the Pacifica Kingdom, with whom she was infatuated. However, after meeting Eric, Ariel is revealed to be a romantic, willing to make daring sacrifices for the sake of true love. Her love for him is validated by Eric's returned selflessness and sacrificial actions for the sake of love; notably seen during the climax of the film.

Like Ariel's father, Triton, she has a bad temper if she ever is provoked, although hers is not as bad as his. Although spirited, even she has had some degree of self-doubts about herself, as she actually at one point considered her father might have been correct and that she may have been a freak for having any fascination for humanity. She also had a degree of seeing the good in things, as she also doubted that humans could have been pure evil from their tools and artworks.

Also, despite her usual naivety and impulsiveness, Ariel has shown to be serious, careful, and very intuitive on many occasions. One example of her occasionally showing intuitiveness was just before exploring the sunken ship, where she suggested that Flounder stay outside and be on the lookout for sharks in the area when the latter tried to fake illness.

In The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea, as an adult, Ariel has matured into a sophisticated and distinguished woman; fully embracing her responsibilities as a mother and the princess consort of Eric's kingdom and fully adapting to her human body that she has had for some time now thanks to her father's magic. However, when Morgana threatens Melody at her christening, Ariel becomes overprotective of her daughter similarly to how she was treated by Triton in the first film. As a result, she severs all ties with Atlantica and the ocean in hopes of preventing Morgana from using Melody's heritage to her advantage. Despite being happy with her new life as a human mother and wife, she misses her father and sisters, but keeps this hidden from Melody for the latter's own safety. Later, she comes to realize that this decision does more harm than good.

However, at one point, Ariel subtly alludes to her true heritage, as she mentioned to Melody when sympathizing with her about not fitting in that she was "a fish out of water", with Melody not quite believing her.

Regardless of Ariel's few flaws, she is very much selfless, sweet-natured, and inspirational. However, her most notable trait was her deep love and fascination for humans, having desired to become human during the first film's events, even before meeting her future husband, Eric. However, she did not always have this trait; until she was 15 years old, she expressed a deep fear of humans similar to Triton's prejudice towards humans, although her witnessing a human saving a beached dolphin changed her views on the matter. Ironically, the human responsible for saving the dolphin was Eric, although she never knew it.

Physical appearance
Ariel is a beautiful adolescent mermaid with an hourglass figure, fair skin, red lips, and large, deep, aqua blue eyes. In stark contrast to the previous Disney Princesses created before her, Snow White, Cinderella, and Aurora, who were drawn with smaller eyes and smaller heads in proportion to their bodies similar to adult women, Ariel is drawn with somewhat semi-neotenous features, with larger eyes and with a head more similar to a child's than an adult's in proportion to her body, giving her an appearance of youth rather than maturity. This suggests the combination of youthful innocence and physical maturity which Ariel represented; for example, it eventually became the design basis of most Disney Princesses created after her in recent years; such as Jasmine, Rapunzel, Anna, Elsa, and Moana.

From childhood to her teenage years, she wore a lavender seashell bikini top. As a child, her lips were the same color as her skin, and as a teenager, they are bright red. Ariel's most defining feature is her long, flowing, thick, bright red hair. From the waist down, she has a green horizontal fish-like tail with sea-green scales and sea-foam green fins and a matching V-shaped waist-line resembling fish-lips that reveals her midriff and her belly button. She most likely has the reproductive organs of a cetacean. In Little Mermaid's Island, her seashell top looks more like a strapless top that covers all of her torso. She is also fairly tall in human form, being only a few inches shorter than Eric, himself a fairly tall human.

When Ariel becomes a human, the only article of clothing she wore was her seashell bikini top, but wears an old sail from a shipwreck with some rope to keep it closed, fashioned by her friend Scuttle. Being prepared for dinner, she wears a pink-and-white gown, silver barrettes in her hair, and pearl white earrings. Getting ready for bedtime, she wears a pink nightgown. After being taken in by Prince Eric, she wears a multi-shade-of-blue dress consisting of a powder-blue blouse with long sleeves, a midnight-blue bodice, and a cobalt-blue foot-length skirt, along with black heels. She wears a big royal blue bow in her hair. After she's turned into a human once again, she wears a periwinkle, glittering dress. After she kisses Eric and during their wedding, she wears a white wedding dress with pale green trimming, big puffy sleeves, and a sparkling golden tiara on her veil.

During and after her daughter Melody's christening, she wears a gold-and-white dress, and has her hair in a low ponytail decorated with a white bow. She also wears a periwinkle gown with an up-do decorated with a golden tiara with green and white gems on her necklace and earrings during Melody's 12th birthday party with her hair being a bit shorter due to it being adjusted and pulled in a bun. She still wears the same up-do with a green peasant dress when she's on Eric's ship and a blue-and-white dress with light blue earrings in the song "Here on the Land and Sea" in the second movie. In one of the video games, she wears an aqua-colored gown with a matching flower on the side of her hair.

Powers and abilities
Powers
Aquapathy: As a mermaid, Ariel is capable of speaking with aquatic fauna; as she can understand and communicate with aquatic/marine creatures. She retains this ability; even in her human form.
Former powers
Magic: In the episode "T'ank You For Dat, Ariel", Ariel briefly became a sea witch and learned how to use magic; she used her new-found talents to grant Sebastian's wish of being bigger, but unfortunately, it continuously worked, making him continue to grow to the point where he surfaced while standing, and it was fueled by the light of the full moon. She lost her magic and status as a sea witch when she wished the whole entire mess never happened, and her magic did just that, erasing the entire event and influencing her so it wouldn't happen in the reset timeline.
Speed Swimming: As a mermaid, Ariel was capable of swimming much faster than normal humans and even certain aquatic/marine creatures in terms of undersea travel or sea travel; for example, she was able to get to Atlantica from Prince Eric's kingdom in less than a day, as well as getting from Atlantica to Norway in the episode "Metal Fish", in a similar time fashion. She does not retain this ability while she is in her human form.
Underwater Breathing: As a mermaid, Ariel is able to metabolize oxygen from the water, which negates the need to surface; although she is certainly more than capable of breathing on land. She does not retain this ability while she is in her human form.
Abilities
Adaptability: As demonstrated in the first film, Ariel is capable of mastering almost any skills or gaining knowledge very quickly; for example, after becoming human via Ursula's magic potion, she was able to learn how to stand up in a few minutes, if not a few seconds and move in the same time span, as Ariel quickly figured out how to run, after Max had unintentionally frightened her, after he had alerting her to his present; as she tried in a failed attempt to get away from the sheepdog, as well as quickly learning about the human customs. Ariel can also master other skills at a much faster pace, that would take normal humans months or even years to learn; skills such as dancing, horse riding, etc., as it has only taken her a few minutes, if not a few seconds to learn.
Singing: As demonstrated in the films and the TV series, Ariel is an excellent singer, which is a talent shared by all merpeople. According to Sebastian; she has the most beautiful voice in all of Atlantica; her voice is so beautiful, that even Eric had fallen in love with Ariel after only hearing her sing to him once, when she drew him to consciousness with her incredible voice after rescuing him from drowning at sea.
Dancing: As demonstrated in the first film, the TV series and the prequel film, The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning, Ariel is an excellent dancer, which is a talent shared by most merpeople; after becoming human via Ursula's magic potion, she was able to dance with Eric with admirable skill as if she had been a human for years, this is partly; due to her rapid adaptability. In Ariel's mermaid form, she can dance in a fashion similar.
Expert Swimmer: As a mermaid, Ariel is an excellent swimmer, as demonstrated in the films, the TV series, and the prequel film, The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning. However, as demonstrated in the first film, Ariel as a human (initially) was not very good at swimming. When Ariel became human; due to her inability to breathe underwater or swim without her tail that she was accustomed to, Flounder and Sebastian were forced to help her get to the surface; otherwise, she would have drowned. However, by the time of the events of The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea, Ariel has regained her swimming skills; as demonstrated at the ending of the second film.
Expert Animal Rider: As demonstrated in the first film and the TV series, Ariel is an excellent animal rider, as she can ride giant seahorses (the equivalent of horses); such as Stormy and Seabiscuit, as well as command the reigns of a carriage controlled by Triton's dolphins relatively easily. In Ariel's human form, she is able to ride horses in a similar fashion; for example, when Eric took her out on a tour of his kingdom, he attempted to teach her how to ride a carriage controlled by his horse, initially, she lost control of the horse, as it turned into a wild ride' to the point where Eric; a brave and daring adventurer in his own right became terrified, however, she soon gained control of the horse, this is partly; due to her rapid adaptability; to the point that Eric became relaxed again. In the storybook of The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Baby Beau, sometime after Ariel's marriage to Eric, the latter gave her a foal (a baby horse) as a gift, who she named Beau, and once Beau grew into a mature stallion, she began to ride him very often, with skill and enthusiasm in a fashion similar to her riding giant seahorses.
Expert Musician: As demonstrated in the TV series, and the prequel film, The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning, Ariel is an excellent musician; as she is capable of playing a guitar, a piano, bongo drums, and the harp respectively with admirable skill. However, as seen in the episode "Calliope Dreams", the only musical instrument that she is not proficient at is the sea calliope (the equivalent of the organ) even when Sebastian tries his best to teach her how to play the calliope, Ariel's skills with the calliope did not improve at all. Her lack of skill with this musical instrument is in fact so bad, that it not only woke up the Seaclops, but it also annoyed the sea monster to the point that it tried to annihilate Ariel.

Belle
“Look, there she goes, that girl is strange, no question. Dazed and distracted, can't you tell? Never part of any crowd. 'Cause her head's up on some cloud. No denying she's a funny girl, that Belle.”
―The villagers describing Belle
Belle is the female protagonist of Disney's 1991 animated feature film, Beauty and the Beast. She is the only daughter of Maurice, an inventor with whom she resides in a small, French village. The townsfolk labeled Belle an outcast because of her free spirit. She is also a proud bibliophile, her favorite genres being fantasy and adventure. Belle's passion for fantastical stories, coupled with her outcast status, left her yearning for a life of adventure outside her small village. She unexpectedly gets her wish when she becomes the Beast's prisoner in order to save her father's life.

Belle is also the fifth official member of the Disney Princess line-up.
Background
Official Description
Far-off places, daring sword fights, a prince in disguise, Belle longs for so much more than a "normal life" in this small, provincial town - a town where girls don't aspire to more than marrying well. Still, adventure is the last thing on her mind when she rides her horse, Philippe, into the forest to find her beloved father, who is missing. Thinking only of her father, she makes a bargain with a Beast who holds her father captive in his castle. Though the Beast now holds the key to Belle's prison, he doesn't have the key to her heart, and her yearning spirit won't be kept prisoner. But after he risks his own life to save hers, she begins to see past his appearance. She realizes that deep inside him there might be something more than she - or he - has ever dreamed.
Development
When production first started on Beauty and the Beast, Belle's characterization was initially slightly closer to that of the original tale, being slightly timid yet also caring. In the first draft, she also had to contend with two elder sisters who, similar to in the original tale, utterly hated her because she received more attention than them, especially regarding potential suitors. In the second draft, she largely retained the traits from the first draft, although she also had a sister named Clarice (whom, unlike her sisters in the first draft, genuinely cared for Belle's well-being) as well as a snobbish aunt named Marguerite (who would have been the movie's equivalent of Belle's wicked sisters from the original tale and first draft). However, after the 1989 storyboard reel was presented, then-Disney Chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg ordered it to be rewritten from scratch, both due to viewing it as too dark and dramatic, and because he envisioned a Broadway-like film with a "feminist twist" to the original tale. To accomplish this, he hired Linda Woolverton, who at the time had just started film screenwriting and her only other experience with Disney was writing some episodes of their various Saturday Morning cartoons. Woolverton based Belle on Katharine Hepburn's role of Jo March from the film adaptation of the book, "Little Women", and avoided using the Jean Cocteau film as a template for Belle and the film, even going as far as to avoid seeing the film. She also gave Belle a love of literature to show her open-mindedness. She also made sure to make Belle a feminist in order to have her stand apart from Ariel in The Little Mermaid, as she didn't want "another insipid princess", taking notes from the women's movement to create her character. Paige O'Hara requested that Belle, similar to Jerry Orbach's handling of Lumiere in the same film, possess a French accent, although unlike Orbach, Disney refused the request.

Personality

Belle reading a book.

Belle has gained a significant amount of intelligence over the years due to her love of books, which provided her with an elevated vocabulary, an active imagination, and an open mind. She is very confident and outspoken in her opinions and seldom likes being told what to do. Despite all this, she doesn't have very many friends. Her smarts and free-thinking attitude make her stand out from her fellow townspeople, who regard her as a little odd behind her beauty.

Belle appears less concerned about her or others' appearances and is able to look past appearances into their personality. This is how she manages to break the Beast's curse and bring love and laughter to the castle.

Belle is somewhat of a free woman for her time and resists being mistreated, undermined, humiliated, demeaned, or controlled by anyone, especially and specifically by Gaston. She does not appear to be receptive to Gaston's description of marriage together, such as having six to seven sons or rubbing his feet. Even when agreeing to live under the Beast's control, she acts independently.

Belle willingly listens to, takes advice from, and admires her father Maurice since, throughout most of her life, he's the only person who has believed in her unconditionally. She also considers the opinions and directions of the Beast, because, like Maurice, he is able to treat her as an equal (the Beast eventually learned how throughout the course of the film). Belle also seemed to have a good relationship with the bookseller, presumably because of his encouraging her to pursue her love of literature.

Belle's compassionate heart and warm nature also embeds in an impressively brave woman that neither listens nor cares about what the other townspeople say about her. She refuses Gaston’s wedding proposal and remains the only girl to resist his ‘charms’ due to his rude, sexist demeanor instead of mindlessly lavishing over him based purely on the physical. Her most triumphant moments in the movie are when she willingly trades her freedom for her father’s without much hesitation and manage to stand up against the Beast at certain points. However, like any human, Belle does fear things, such as wolves, Beast’s castle, family disappearance, etc. The Beast also at first, manages to make the situation of her predicament as a prisoner, never to see her father or dreams again, come crushing down in tears. Especially when her captor himself is a 10 feet, easily angered monster which commands her entire life. Nevertheless, the unconditional love Belle places to those close to her, including the Beast eventually, make her strong enough to risk her life for theirs.

Belle is quite stubborn when it comes to stating and upholding her opinions and maintaining her ideas. Even though she says that she dreams of adventure, she also states that she wishes for a friend who accepts her for who she is. This is because everyone in town criticizes her for doing her own thing and can't understand her, making her feel like she can't fit in. However, even when people give her a hard time, she never changes but comes to a better understanding of herself. This makes the biggest difference when she breaks the spell and charms the Beast just by being herself.

The Disney comic New Adventures of Beauty and the Beast, set a few years before the first film's events, implies that Belle didn't believe in the supernatural despite her love of fairy tales. This is evidenced while she explores a part of the Black Forest before encountering an owl and thinks that there aren't any mythical creatures in there. This is also supported in the film where she yells "this is impossible" in shock after accidentally bumping into the Wardrobe in shock upon discovery that Mrs. Potts and her fellow servants were living objects.

Belle is quite witty and uses this trait to her advantage to outsmart people. When in an argument with the Beast, Belle held her ground and challenged each of the Beast's points with a cunning comeback, such as "If you hadn't frightened me I wouldn't have run away" or "You should learn to control your temper". Each of these statements left the Beast stunned and at a loss for words. Belle managed to think of these comebacks without much thought or hesitation. When Lumiere and Cogsworth attempted to lead Belle's curiosity away from the West Wing, she challenged them by saying the West Wing wouldn't be forbidden if the Beast wasn't hiding something in it, also briefly stunning them. Belle's logic may also have helped her save Maurice by realizing that something was going on in the castle that she wanted to find out. Soon, in the West Wing, she almost discovers the Beast's true identity, though she briefly forgets it in the end.

Belle has a strong sense of character and uses this trait in a variety of ways, often to her own advantage. On Belle's first night in the castle, following the "Be Our Guest" sequence, she develops an urge to explore the castle and asks for a guide. Observing Cogsworth's "authoritative" personality, she immediately knows that Cogsworth would be the best candidate. At first, Cogsworth is quite reluctant to the idea, but when Belle says she is sure he knows everything about the castle, he agrees. Similarly, she also has a strong sense of deductive reasoning, as she deduced from the animate objects' interactions that the castle in which she was imprisoned was enchanted without anyone telling her beforehand.

She is also implied to have deduced Gaston's true role in locking Maurice up. This, however, was contradicted when she exposed the Beast's existence to a congregated mob despite the high likelihood that they would turn and kill the Beast due to their current emotional state, as well as being shocked by Gaston and the villagers doing exactly that. This makes Belle feel so guilty that she resolves to stop Gaston and save the Beast, her true love.

Belle's personality transforms throughout the film. At first, she frequently dreams about a life of adventure and romance, not realizing that sometimes adventures might take a turn for the worse. As Belle begins to spend more time with the Beast and their relationship blossoms into a strong friendship, she begins to fall in love with him without realizing it.

Physical appearance
Belle is known throughout the village for her beauty, with one villager commenting that it has no parallel, but she isn't vain or concerned about her looks although she knows it. She is only too aware that her fellow citizens think of her as "odd" and "peculiar". Belle pays very little attention or concern to her appearance, unlike the very rude and arrogant Gaston.

Belle has long, brown hair, most often tied back in a low ponytail with a blue ribbon, and possesses captivating hazel eyes, full pink lips, rosy cheeks, a heart-shaped face, and a sculpted figure. One of her more distinct features is the strands of hair that are constantly slipping loose from her ponytail and falling in front of her face - she is often seen brushing them back into place when nervous or trying to be polite.

Throughout the film, Belle wears various outfits depending on the occasion:

Her primary outfit is a medium-length cerulean blue sleeveless dress with a white long-sleeved button-up shirt underneath, a white apron on her waist, a white petticoat, and brown ballet flats on her feet. Her hair is tied in a low ponytail adorned with a medium blue ribbon. When she goes to the Beast's castle, she wears a dark blue cloak. Belle's hair is loose twice in the film, the first time when the ribbon on her ponytail is torn off by one of the wolves, and the second when she removes the ribbon before finding the Beast during his fight with Gaston.

The day that Belle was gifted the castle's library, she wore a green dress (similar to the color scheme of Ariel from The Little Mermaid) with a matching hair ribbon, a white petticoat underneath the dress and black ballet flats, and outside when she was tending to Phillipe and Sultan she added her traditional dark blue cloak.

When she was reading to the Beast, Belle wore a pink/rose dress (similar to Aurora's from Sleeping Beauty) with a matching hair ribbon, a white petticoat, and red ballet flats and when she was outside teaching the Beast to feed the birds she added a red cloak with white fur trim.

Her most elaborate and iconic dress is a golden ball gown with a simply designed bodice, wrapped off-the-shoulder sleeves, long yellow opera gloves matching her outfit, a gold wide-hemmed floor-length skirt made of 8 triangular panels and a multiple-layered white petticoat with scalloped edging on the hemline, and yellow high-heeled shoes. This is the dress she wears while sharing her first dance with the Beast in the "Beauty and the Beast" sequence, and their second dance after the curse is broken. With this outfit, she wears some of her hair in a neat bun, but the majority of it trails down her neck in a beautiful, flowing motion resembling a ponytail.

In Beauty and the Beast: The Enchanted Christmas, Belle wears a long red winter coat with a white fur collar, belt, and folded sleeves while wearing her primary outfit. At the end of the film, set after the curse was broken, Belle wears a deep red rose dress which resembles the color of a red rose with a matching deep red hair ribbon, a light yellow lining connected to her bodice and the end of her dress skirt, a white petticoat, and deep red high-heeled shoes.

Overall, when she first enters the Beast's castle, her outfit wasn't adapted to the castle, but as the film moves on, her outfit started progressively shifting to more formal and elegant dresses, signifying her growing more attached to the castle and its inhabitants as the Beast reforms into a well-behaved gentleman.

Abilities
Peak-Human Agility: Belle displays a few notable athletic abilities despite having spent her life in the village. She can ride her horse, Philippe, at quite stunning speeds with ease and skill, such as in the Black Forest when she managed to outrun the wolves for a time and even causing one wolf to veer into a tree. During the opening song, while reading her new book, she also managed to effortlessly sweep aside a water downpour from gutters that was about to hit her, deflecting it onto a nearby signpost, all without even looking up from her book, implying that she was keenly aware of her surroundings.
Peak-Human Strength: Despite her slim figure, Belle seems to have considerable strength. She may have lifted the Beast, as evidenced by the Beast being placed onto Philippe's back, although this was never shown on-screen. Later on, she was able to pull the Beast up onto a balcony. In addition, she also was revealed to have rescued her father from the elements and presumably place him onto Philippe while he was still unconscious. Both the Beast and Maurice are each presumed to weigh considerably more than Belle, making her rescue of them quite a feat.
Peak-Human Stamina: Belle also appears to have tireless reserves of stamina and considerable resilience to cold, likely due to her young age, able to survive fording icy water for a short period of time (in Enchanted Christmas, she proved to be a capable swimmer when she rescued Chip), and she can walk back to the castle having given her cloak and Philippe over to the injured Beast after the wolves were driven off. In the Marvel Comics serial, she even managed to withstand the cold long enough to tell Chip about how she and her father went to the fair and won the first prize before passing out, just as Beast ultimately managed to trace her location via holly bushels hitting him when she let go of them.

Jasmine
“How dare you! All of you - standing around, deciding my future? I am not a prize to be won!”
―Princess Jasmine[src]
Princess Jasmine is the deuteragonist of Disney's 1992 animated feature film, Aladdin. She is the independent and rebellious princess of Agrabah, a Middle Eastern kingdom ruled by her father, the Sultan. As the future Sultana, Jasmine has a strong sense of obligation to her kingdom. Because of outdated laws, however, she was forbidden to go beyond the palace walls and was forced to follow unjust practices. Refusing to be treated like a sheltered object, Jasmine desperately aspires to diverge from her societal confines, to live a life where she is free to make her own choices.

Jasmine is loosely based on the character of Princess Badroulbadour from the Aladdin fairy tale featured in the One Thousand and One Nights storybook collection. She is also the sixth official member of the Disney Princess line-up, and the first to be of non-Caucasian descent.
Background
Jasmine is the daughter of the Sultan of Agrabah and his late wife, residing in the kingdom's lavished palace alongside her father and loyal pet tiger, Rajah, whom she found several years before the events of the film. She believed him to be a spiritual gift from her mother, who would tell her stories about the "star tiger" named Rajah.[1] It is revealed in the book Tales from Agrabah that, whenever Jasmine would long for her mother, she would sit on her balcony and stargaze for a period of time.

Because of her status as a princess, Jasmine was unfortunately forbidden to ever leave the palace walls, spending her life sheltered within the confines of the royal home. She often felt suffocated by the laws of her kingdom, which restricted her from socializing with her subjects and forced her to constantly meeting suitors to possibly arrange marriages. This situation ultimately prevented Jasmine from making any connections, as she had never had any real friends (aside from Rajah), and left her with the desire to see the world and experience life outside of being a sheltered princess, which would eventually result in meeting Aladdin.

Official Description
Jasmine is a dreamer who loves her pet tiger, Rajah. She's free-spirited, confident, and kind. When she meets Aladdin, she discovers the wonders she's often imagined outside the palace walls.
Development
Loosely inspired by the Aladdin folk tale, Howard Ashman's 1988 treatment for an animated adaptation of Aladdin included a shallow, spoiled, and materialistic princess named Jasmine, whose "brattiness" served as comic relief in the story. Her personality was fleshed out in the song "Call Me A Princess", in which she arrogantly flaunts her royal status. There was also another female character, a tomboyish street urchin named Abbi, who joined Aladdin on his quest to rescue the princess. At the end of Ashman's treatment, Aladdin is offered the princess' hand in marriage, but he ultimately refuses in favor of his true love, Abbi. However, as development on an Aladdin film furthered at the studio, Ashman's screenplay saw major revisions. The Abbi character was cut, while Jasmine was given a larger role as Aladdin's love interest. Furthermore, Jasmine's "spoiled brat" persona was scrapped in favor of a character that was more endearing and sympathetic.[2]

In Linda Woolverton's screenplay, the relationship between Aladdin and Jasmine served as a driving force of the narrative, slowly replacing Aladdin's desire to make his mother proud (as was the case in Ashman's treatment). Woolverton also gave the princess a human handmaiden for a friend. Although Ron Clements and John Musker enjoyed the love story blossoming between Aladdin and Jasmine, they believed Woolverton's script featured too many human characters and seemed better suited for a live-action format as a consequence. They sought to remedy the issue by adding characters that were "animation-friendly", thus, the handmaiden was replaced with a pet tiger.[3]

Even with Musker and Clements on board to direct, there was still work to be done with the story. While observing preliminary sketches of Aladdin and Jasmine (the former of whom was portrayed as a young boy, while Jasmine was a young woman), Jeffrey Katzenberg believed that a love story between the two would be seen as unrealistic, as a woman of Jasmine's age and beauty would never fall for a juvenile like Aladdin. Screenwriters Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio called for an aged up and redesigned Aladdin, while also expanding Jasmine's character to be "stronger".[4]

Personality
“You're not gonna find another girl like her in a million years.”
―Genie to Aladdin, about Jasmine
Jasmine is introduced as feisty and no-nonsense, with zero tolerance for anyone who dares to belittle her. She initially rejected her role as a princess because of the unethical requirements that come with the role, including being forced to remain within the palace at all times, forced to marry for political gain rather than love, and treated as a tool rather than her own person. After gaining her independence by the end of Aladdin, Jasmine is shown to be very much a ruler of Agrabah alongside her father instead of merely sitting around on the sidelines. She takes part in most political disputes and garners an amount of respect equal to her father.

Strong-willed and defiant, Jasmine is not afraid to speak her mind, nor will she hesitate to stand up for what she believes is right. Her open resentment towards Agrabah's outdated laws, and her belief that people should be judged solely by their character rather than their background, shows that she is progressive. This mentality allowed her to see the goodness in Aladdin, despite his background as a street urchin. In "Garden of Evil", she was able to see the humanity in the plant creature Arbutus, whereas others assumed that he was a soulless monster.

However, Jasmine's attitude often put her at odds with her father and other members of the elite, who were content with sticking to the status quo and expressed frustration with her refusal to do the same. She has been something of an outcast amongst royalty as a result, so she developed a standoffish nature and sometimes acts incredibly stubborn as a defense mechanism. More comically, releasing Rajah on those who annoy her is another defense mechanism for which she has become infamous.

While the movie focuses on Jasmine's goal to achieve individuality, the television series explores her outstanding devotion to her kingdom and people. In "Bad Mood Rising", Jasmine explains that she rules under the philosophy that, "A princess knows the needs of the people outweigh her own". Following that belief, she risked her life for Agrabah on numerous occasions: In the original Aladdin, despite not being a fighter yet, she was quick to aid Aladdin in the final battle against sorcerer Jafar by grabbing hold of the latter's snake staff. When her kingdom was terrorized in "Armored and Dangerous", she leaped into battle, with only Carpet by her side, to defend her people from Dominus Tusk's wrath. In "The Ethereal", she sacrificed her life to save a child's life, which in turn saved Agrabah from destruction at the hands of the Ethereal. In Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams, Jasmine attempts to contribute to Agrabah in ways that don't include flaunting her status as a princess - such as volunteering in schools or hospitals.

Being aware of her sex appeal and its effect on others, Jasmine is notorious for flaunting her assets to gain the trust of her enemies, only to betray and/or humiliate them when the time is right. A prominent example of this occurred when Jafar took over Agrabah; when Aladdin tried to steal back the lamp, she took advantage of Jafar's lust for her by pretending to be madly in love with him to cover for Aladdin. Another example is when Aladdin (under the alias of Prince Ali) appeared on her balcony in an attempt to woo her; she used her sex appeal and flirting gestures to make Aladdin think he was making progress only to shatter his hope and embarrass him.

Despite her cunning, Jasmine can sometimes be too fussy and act without thinking things through. She was willing to leave the palace without knowing the difference in customs between royalty and commoners; this is shown by her donating an apple to a child and being confused when the vendor demanded that she pay for it. In "Do the Rat Thing", she took offense when Aladdin declared that she didn't know what it's like to be a "street rat", despite the fact that he was right.

Physical appearance
Jasmine was animated and designed by Mark Henn, her facial structure is modeled after his sister, Beth Henn. She is a very beautiful, slender young girl of average height with a sensual, voluptuous hourglass figure. She has olive skin, high cheekbones, brown eyes with full eyelashes, and straight, lush hair reaching her thighs.

Jasmine's casual outfit was designed to be simplistic, resembling that of Arabian Harem women. She wears a sky blue (later turquoise) crop top that reveals her midriff and navel with sewn-in off-the-shoulder straps, matching puffy pants with a light-blue V-shaped waistline cerulean curled shoes. Her hair is worn in a ponytail in two sections with matching teal bands and ending in a small swirl with this outfit. She wears a turquoise headband which is centered with a sapphire with a gold border adorned into it. She also dons two large golden earrings completely covering her ears and a matching necklace.

For formal occasions, such as the announcement of her engagement, Jasmine wears a purple dress. Opposite of her casual wear, this dress covers most of her body like a normal gown, with the fabric reigning down from her shoulders to her feet. The top half of the dress is strapless, and the lower half consists of a belt piece (centered with a sapphire) and a transparent pink veil that flows down, just below her calves. She also wears a headband with a similar royal blue jewel, while her hair is tied in a ponytail similar to the one associated with her casual outfit, though the bands are purple instead of blue.

When disguising herself as a commoner on the streets of Agrabah, Jasmine wears a brown abaya, with a matching hijab. The outfit would later become casual for her outings in the marketplace, as seen in her later appearances. In The Return of Jafar, Jafar used this outfit and her usual palace clothes as his main disguised form.

When Jafar takes control of Agrabah for a short while, he makes Jasmine wear red harem pants with a matching bandeau bikini top, both made of silk, with several golden accessories, such as a snake armlet on her right arm and triangular, gold earrings. Her hair is also tied in a high ponytail, with a golden seemingly metallic band. Jafar later creates a gold tiara for Jasmine from her shackles when he decides to make her his queen.

During the finale, Jasmine wears a violet strapless tube top, with matching pants consisting of linings around the waist that come full circle and end with a blue, encrusted jewel. Her shoulders are covered by a transparent, blue veil that reaches down to her waist. The outfit is completed by purple bands to tie into her ponytail and the gold earrings she has with her casual outfit.

When she has a discussion with Aladdin about Iago's presence, Jasmine wears another formal outfit; her cropped tube top is now lavender with pink trim and long sleeves, her lavender harem pants gain a matching short greave with a pink trim adorned with a sapphire at the center and brown curled shoes. Her hair clips and headband are adorned with a sapphire at the center are lavender to match her outfit, and she wears a gold necklace on her neck and different dangling earrings on both of her ears.

In Aladdin and the King of Thieves, Jasmine incorporates both of her outfits in the previous films. She wears a pink long-sleeved tube top with white collared sleeves on each side, pink harem pants with white trim, and brown curled shoes. She wears a pink hat instead of a headband and retains her gold necklace and earrings from her first casual outfit. Her hair clips are also pink to match her outfit.

Jasmine's other outfit is identical to her first casual outfit but is pink with gold trim. She wears a dark pink and light purple Arabian jacket with a gold trim beneath it. Her headband is gold and has a ruby gem in the center, and she maintains her gold accessories.

Jasmine's initial appearance and at the end of the film (where she is finally married to Aladdin, and they set off on their honeymoon) is a simple white Arabian wedding dress with a gold trim adorned with an amethyst gem on the chest and a gold sparkle designs at her dress skirt. Her hair is loose with lavender flowers on each side adorned and a long white wedding veil.

Abilities
Intuitive Aptitude: Jasmine is quite intuitive and intelligent, has described herself as a fast learner. After one demonstration from Aladdin, she was able to pole vault across a rooftop. Jasmine has been able to manipulate foes and read people for their true intentions, such as Prince Achmed, Jafar, Mirage or even Chaos, showing an ability to uncover lies and secrets. This is prominently seen during her night with "Prince Ali" when she suspected that he is the same boy that she met in the marketplace. After spending more time together, she tricks him into confirming her suspicions, proving that she is smart enough to outsmart a street-wise street rat.
Animal Empathy: With her kind-hearted nature, Jasmine has shown a remarkable affinity to most animals she encounters. Most noticeably is the massive Rajah, who is undeniably loyal to her and acts more akin to a house pet with her. Other animals, such as Iago in their adventures together and even random fishes, tend to take a liking to her.
Multilingual: As an aspiring queen, Jasmine can speak several unspecified languages, as it was briefly mentioned in Disney Princess Enchanted Tales: Follow Your Dreams.
Skill Hand-to-Hand Combatant: As seen in the television series, as well as Aladdin and the King of Thieves, Jasmine eventually garnered skills in combat, being able to hold her own in battle against thieves and other antagonists. She is rather unmerciful in battle, as seen in "The Secret of Dagger Rock", "The Great Rift" and "The Vapor Chase" In the episode "A Sultan Worth His Salt", Jasmine is shown to be skilled in the use of weaponry for combat. Her skills are arguably best showcased in "Forget Me Lots", where she (under magical amnesia) easily battled and nearly defeated Aladdin, as well as numbers of other characters. Both that episode and "The Wind Jackals of Mozenrath" feature a whip as her personal weapon of choice, with which she displays exceptional skill in an offense, defense, and even non-combat ingenuity.
Physical Strength: Despite her appearance, Jasmine has impressive physical strength, as she could push a large statue in Aladdin and the King of Thieves, and a boulder in "My Fair Aladdin" and beat a thug with a punch in Aladdin and the King of Thieves.
Horse Riding: In Disney Princess Enchanted Tales, Jasmine notes that she has been riding horses since before she could even walk.

Pocahontas
“You know Pocahontas. She has her mother's spirit. She goes wherever the wind takes her.”
―Kekata
Pocahontas is the titular protagonist of Disney's 1995 animated feature film of the same name. She is the daughter of Chief Powhatan, the leader of a Native American tribe in Virginia. With a willfully bold spirit, she formed a forbidden friendship with an English settler named John Smith, with whom she would fall in love. Unfortunately, a difference in values sparks a war between the natives and settlers, endangering her home. Inspired by her love for Smith, she is driven to bring peace and unity to the two worlds before a battle can unfold.

Pocahontas is the seventh official Disney Princess and the first one to be based on an actual person.
Background
Pocahontas' mother had died and she had inherited her strong will and free spirit. She is the only member of her tribe who is not xenophobic toward the white settlers, instead of forming a relationship with John Smith. By the time of the second film, she is respected enough that she is sent as an ambassador to England on behalf of her people.

Official Description
Pocahontas loves nature, and she spends her time exploring the land. After she falls in love with a man named John Smith, it's up to her to discover her destiny and bring peace to her people.
Development
Pocahontas' name means "Little Mischief". She is based on the real historical figure and was born into a highly sophisticated Native American culture that knew about Europeans. Her design was modeled after her voice actress, Irene Bedard, who happens to be Native American herself.

It is important to note that Jean-Jacques Rousseau's notion of the "noble savage" was an important inspiration for this fictionalized story of the important historical persona that is Pocahontas. For as can be seen in other information given below, the story presented in the animated film is not an accurate telling of her life. Rather, it is an examination of the above notion. However, this can be argued against. In her signature song "Colors of the Wind", she sings: "You think I'm an ignorant savage. And you've been so many places, I guess it must be so. But still, I cannot see if the savage one is me. How can there be so much that you don't know? You don't know..." As such, even Disney's depiction of Pocahontas can be seen as someone much more complex and nuanced than Rosseau's "noble savage" archetype.

Personality
Pocahontas is displayed as a noble, free-spirited, and highly spiritual young woman. She expresses wisdom beyond her years and offers kindness and guidance to those around her. She loves her homeland, adventure, and nature. In the film, she appears to have shamanic powers since she was able to commune with nature, talk to spirits, empathize with animals, and understand unknown languages.

Pocahontas believes that her mother's spirit surrounds her where she enjoys fleeing a breeze as if she feels her deceased mother's presence. Pocahontas also shows a very playful side where she tips her best friend, Nakoma off her boat and proceeds to splash her with water.

In the sequel, Pocahontas seems to have grown after hearing of John Smith's assumed death. She keeps her independent spirit and playfulness but is much more mature and self-assured than she was in the first film. When she meets John Rolfe, she does not appreciate and sometimes bickers with him at first, but as time goes on, she develops romantic feelings for him far greater than those she had with Smith. During her stay in England, she nearly loses herself in the hustle and bustle of this new world and is turned into someone she's not. But in the end, she bravely intends to sacrifice herself for her people's safety and returns to her homeland, finding herself, and romantic love, once again.

Physical appearance
Pocahontas is a young woman with tan skin, long raven-black hair, and twinkling, dark brown eyes. She has a tall, slender, statuesque figure with broad shoulders and narrow hips and goes around barefoot in the first film, whereas in the sequel, she wears flat moccasins. Unlike the other "modern" Disney Princesses of the period, such as Ariel, Belle, and Jasmine, as well as the others created after the Disney Renaissance such as Rapunzel, Anna, Elsa, and Moana, Pocahontas is drawn with her eyes and face less rounded and more angular and refined, as well as drawn with a head more similar to an adult's in proportion to her body similar to that of the first three original Disney Princesses, such as Snow White, Cinderella, and Aurora, giving her an appearance of maturity which Pocahontas represented.

She normally wears her iconic turquoise necklace which belonged to her mother. It is removed twice in the two films. The first occasion occurs when a fatally wounded Kocoum grabs at it as he falls, shattering it. In the sequel, she herself removes it and replaces it with a gold chain, stating, "It doesn't belong here."

The animation of her is also different from other Disney Princesses; owing to the flatter, angular, and more geometric art style of her debut film similar to those of Sleeping Beauty and One Hundred and One Dalmatians.

Fa Mulan
“You don't meet a girl like that every dynasty.”
―The Emperor to Li Shang about Fa Mulan

Fa Mulan is the titular protagonist of Disney's 1998 animated feature film, Mulan. She is the strong-willed and tenacious daughter of a war veteran, who strives to uphold her family's honor. When her father is called back into battle to defend China from Shan Yu, Mulan opts to protect him by taking his place under the guise of a male soldier named Ping.

Mulan is inspired by the legendary Hua Mulan. She is the eighth official Disney Princess, the only one not to be of royal lineage either by birth or marriage. She is the last Disney Princess to be developed during the Disney Renaissance.

Background
Mulan resides in a small Chinese village with her father, her mother, and her wisecracking grandmother (after whom Mulan takes). She also has a dog named Little Brother. As the standard of the period, Mulan is urged to uphold her family honor by adhering to the status quo set for women of the time. However, she is presented as an outcast. She is clumsy and seeks to finish her household chores by inventing contraptions to do the work in her place (much to the chagrin of her father).

As a member of the Fa family, Mulan is under the protection of the Fa Family ancestors and the family guardians (which are represented by animals of the Chinese zodiac). By the end of the original Mulan, Mulan's personal guardian is that of Mushu, a diminutive dragon.

Personality
At the start of the film, Mulan is introduced as a free-spirited outcast. She is a clumsy girl who cannot follow the rules, regulations, or traditions. Despite this, she has a warm heart and wants nothing more than to uphold her family's honor while keeping true to herself. Because of her society, however, this is difficult to accomplish and often brings chaos and embarrassment into her life.

The driving force of Mulan's journey is the love she has for her father. When her father is drafted to serve in the Emperor's army to defend China, Mulan steals his orders and reports to the camp in his place to protect him as well as to satisfy her desire to prove her own self-worth. She was seen having difficulties with self-confidence due to society's mistreatment towards her and the pressures of the society into which she was born - particularly in the lives of women. Early in the film, whenever she went against sexism and injustice or simply handled a situation in her own, unique way (such as shouting "Present!" when the matchmaker called her name), Mulan was greeted with anger or some form of annoyance from those around her, thus furthering her socially-awkward attitude.

During her time in camp, Mulan's personality takes a shift. She proves to be fierce, both physically and mentally, as well as self-reliant, impressionable, and persistent. As she learns the ways of strength and agility, she rises to the top of her class, setting an example for the men surrounding her, and soon earns their respect and friendship. Over time, Mulan gains more confidence, symbolizing her growth, as she becomes more of a mature woman by the film's third act. She can perform successful tactics through quick-thinking and mental observation instead of mere brute strength (something idealized in her camp), eventually saving her fellow soldiers and China on notable occasions. Nevertheless, she retained her humble nature, not once becoming overconfident and boastful, even after becoming a beloved heroine and receiving countless amounts of praise and respect from the very society that continuously opposed her. It wasn't until Mulan returned home and received a loving welcome from her father that she truly emoted her satisfaction over her previous successes, proving her goal, overall, was to uphold her family honor while being true to herself; this being visually and thematically represented by her relationship with her father.

The sequel shows that Mulan's personality, seen during the latter half of the first film, has remained. Mulan is a responsible young woman, seen as a fearless warrior, leader, and beloved role model among her people, both men, and women. Nevertheless, she is also fun-loving and optimistic, especially when seen with Shang, with whom she had developed a strong, romantic relationship by the start second film. The sequel also shows her to be rather laid-back, open-minded, and philosophical, believing in the practice of following one's heart.

Physical appearance
Mulan is a young tomboy of Chinese origin. She is a natural beauty, with dark brown eyes and straight, black hair that used to be long and waist-length. Later in the film when she leaves to join the army in disguise, she cuts her hair with her father's sword into shoulder-length and ties it up in a bun. This helps her blend into the army so that the other soldiers don't know that she's really a woman. In the second film, her hair was grown. Not to its original waist-length, but it's noticeably longer a few inches longer towards her back. In promotional works, her hair is always shown as its original length, down to the waist.

During the two films, Mulan wore a range of outfits, from beautiful Hanfus (Chinese dresses) to her soldier's getup, though her most notable outfits come from the original film; in which her promotional dress comes from, which is a simple Hanfu, which consisted of either a creamy green-yellow dress, with blue overshirt, which has green sleeves and a red band around her waist. She also sports a Kung fu-styled soldier's outfit, as well as her pink matchmaker's Hanfu and her father's armor.

Except when she goes to the matchmaker, Mulan does not wear any makeup or anything to beautify her appearance. Mulan is naturally beautiful nonetheless.

She wears a light blue tank top, short blue shorts, and is barefoot when she sleeps. She wears a dress consisting of a green long-sleeved shirt with olive brims and both yellow skirt and inside shirt with a low cut neckline, blue wrap, red waistband, and black ballet flats, but also has been seen barefoot as well. To impress the matchmaker, she had her face painted in white, red lips, black hair tied in a loose bun with a red hair ribbon, narrow crimson and pale pink Chinese skirt, pink jacket with long, flowing sleeves, aqua and plum collar, blue wrap with a red ribbon to fasten it, light purple scarf, same color shoes, jade bead necklace, gold dangling earrings, and a special lotus flower hair pick. When she was disguised as "Ping," she has black hair tied in a bun with a teal ribbon to look like a man (when she cuts her long, beautiful hair with her father's sword into a shoulder-length), and dark green soldier armor. In the Martial Arts sequence, she had a cream suit. In the Shan Yu battle, she wore a teal dress consisting of a poet-sleeved blouse, a long olive vest with a crimson collar, a crimson belt, light pink sash, and same color shoes.

Abilities
Although Mulan possesses no magical or superhuman powers, she has military training courtesy of Shang.

Martial Arts: As part of her training, Mulan learned kung fu, eventually becoming proficient in hand-to-hand fighting.
Swordsmanship: Mulan honed her skill with her father's sword and became an expert swordswoman, easily holding her own against even the battle-hardened Shan Yu.
Marksmanship: Under Shang's tutelage, Mulan developed skill with ranged weaponry, from the bows and arrows to gunpowder cannons.
Horseback riding: Even before her time in the army, Mulan is an excellent equestrian, further enhanced by her bond with loyal steed Khan.
Strategist: Mulan is also intelligent, cunning, and resourceful, as shown on several occasions, such as when she was first to climb the pole and retrieve an arrow embedded in the top successfully during training. Knowing her unit was vastly outnumbered, she was able to quickly think of using the last cannon to cause an avalanche on the entire Hun army, quite literally stopping them cold, and later lure Shan Yu into Mushu's firing range. When she pulled out her fan, she acted as though she was in shock from having nothing left to fight with, when all along she planned to disarm him with it.

Tiana
“My daddy never did get what he wanted. But he had what he needed. He had love! He never lost sight of what was really important! And neither will I!”
―Tiana.
Princess Tiana of Maldonia (sometimes "Tia") is the protagonist of Disney's 2009 animated feature film, The Princess and the Frog. She is a gifted cook living in New Orleans during the Jazz Age, with dreams of opening a restaurant of her own. In a desperate attempt to achieve her goal, Tiana shares a kiss with a prince that had been magically transformed into a frog by an evil voodoo witch doctor. In doing so, however, Tiana also falls victim to the curse, setting off an adventure in the bayou to find a cure.

Tiana is loosely based on the unnamed princess from the Brothers Grimm fairy tale The Frog Prince. She is the ninth official Disney Princess and the most recent to originate from a traditionally-animated film.

Background
Official Description
Tiana dreams of opening her own restaurant. She works hard to try to make that dream come true. In a twist of fate, she kisses a frog and goes on an adventure through the New Orleans bayou.
Development
Tiana made history as the first African-American princess in the Disney Princess franchise. Early in development, Tiana was originally called Maddy and worked as a chambermaid in the La Bouff household. However, public criticism eventually caused her character's name to be changed to Tiana and her job, a waitress. Disney spokeswoman Heidi Trotta later stated, "Princess Tiana will be a heroine in the great tradition of Disney's rich animated fairy tale legacy, and all other characters and aspects of the story will be treated with the greatest respect and sensitivity." This reworking of the story itself was greatly inspired by the life story of New Orleans chef Leah Chase, and she, in turn, would contribute to the "Tiana's Cookbook" that was published when the film came out.

Mark Henn served as the supervising animator for Tiana. Henn was hired by John Lasseter because he had animated nearly every Disney Princess since The Little Mermaid's Ariel. Describing Tiana, Henn said that she is following "a new trend in our princesses," likening her to Ariel from The Little Mermaid. "When animating Tiana, Henn was inspired by voice actress Anika Noni Rose, borrowing from her dimples and left-handedness. Henn was also inspired by studio employee Jaimie Milner, a film intern who was working in post-production." The fact that Tiana is African American was "never a big issue" for Henn when it came to animating her, but drawing her as both a human and a frog proved difficult." Tiana appears in the movie in different forms - she's a little girl, she's an adult human, and then she's a frog."

Voice
Ron Clements and John Musker, who once worked as animators on The Fox and the Hound, and known for their works like The Great Mouse Detective, The Little Mermaid, Aladdin, and Hercules, decided not to hire "big stars" to voice the film's main characters because "it can help with the identification of that animated character with the voice if you don't get an instant mental picture of the real actor." Several well-known African American actresses and singers had expressed an interest in voicing Tiana, among them, recording artists Beyoncé Knowles, Jennifer Hudson, and Alicia Keys, as well as actress and fashion model Tyra Banks. After enduring three auditions, the role ultimately went to American actress and singer Anika Noni Rose, with whom Hudson and Knowles co-starred in the musical film Dreamgirls.

A longtime fan of Walt Disney Animation Studios, Rose had always wanted to voice a Disney animated character. When the film was brought to her attention, she was drawn to it more by its "story of the young woman" than by the fact that she would be voicing Disney's first African American princess. Rose told The Root that the film "wasn't really pitched to me that way... I don't think the cultural significance hit me until later". Rose was also fairly confident in the role. "To be perfectly honest, I thought it was for me from the moment I got the audition."

Rose described the recording process as "very solitary work" that required her to do much research. To prepare herself for the role, Rose "called people in New Orleans...listened to their voices to hear what they sounded like...did a lot of reading up on the city, and listened to a lot of music in the jazz era." Rose only met with her co-star Bruno Campos twice to record a few scenes together. At her first session, Rose recorded all her dialogue "from top to bottom" in a session that lasted eight hours.

Personality
“She's a strong woman who doesn't need anyone to do things for her. She wants to do things for herself.”
―Anika Noni Rose
Tiana is an intelligent, resourceful, and highly talented young woman. However, at the start of the film, and mostly throughout, she can be overly uptight and far too absorbed in work ethics to focus on relaxing, family, and friends. Though she notices this and appears to have some regret over her busy schedule, her obsession with bringing her dream of opening her own restaurant into fruition overshadows it all. She also, for the most part, has appeared to accept that over the years, as seen when she and Eudora visited the old sugar mill in the preparation of its purchase.

With a strong sense of honor and integrity, Tiana firmly believes nothing deserves to be obtained in the world unless it's done through hard work, a view she's brought up when dealing with her excessively dreamy and immature best friend, Charlotte La Bouff, as well as the party-loving Naveen. This fact also makes her somewhat inflexible as she could have asked Big Daddy La Bouff for seed money for her restaurant instead of working extremely hard to slowly gain the capital necessary.

Aside from her workaholic nature, Tiana has another side to her; one that's passionate, imaginative, and ambitious. She enjoys humor, music, quality time with loved ones, and dancing (though not at first). She becomes excitable whenever mentioning her restaurant, lighting up when she does, as Naveen puts it, and although she initially had very little knowledge over romance, she values it highly once she starts to fall for Naveen, to the point where her restaurant was no longer the most important part of her life.

Tiana is also heroic and is shown to be quite capable of dangerous situations and moments of physical conflict. Throughout the course of the film, she continuously rescued Naveen from life-threatening situations, fending off predators within the bayou, and even Dr. Facilier and his hoard of sinister shadow demons. Her heroism is ultimately put into the forefront during the film's climax, where the city of New Orleans is hurdled into a high state of peril, with the only hopes of its survival being Tiana's own will-power and the aforementioned sense of honor.

She's also incredibly strong-willed and doesn't take lightly to being undermined or insulted by anyone. Despite her poor background, she sees something far greater in herself and jumps at every opportunity available to prove so, whether it be to the sleazy Fenner Brothers or the originally arrogant Prince Naveen, who initially looked down upon the woman because of her occupation as a waitress and uptight attitude, only to be proven there's far more to her than meets the eye.

Despite refusing his offer, Tiana is absolutely horrified watching Facilier get dragged to the voodoo world even putting her hand over her heart in sympathy when spotting his gravestone.

Physical appearance
Tiana is a 19-year-old African American woman. She is tall and slender with a sculpted figure. She has brown skin, medium-length, wavy, black hair usually tied in a low ponytail, light brown eyes with pink eye shadow, a bright smile, and dimples. For most of the movie, Tiana is transformed into a frog. Compared to Naveen she's a lighter green, skinnier, and the only physical human features she retains are her voice and brown eyes.

Throughout the movie, Tiana undergoes various outfit changes. The first of which is her work outfits. When working her night shifts, Tiana wears a blue outfit, and brown shoes as well as a headband style maid's hat. When working her day job at Duke's Diner, Tiana wears a yellow dress over a white shirt, a white apron, and brown shoes. She also owns a dark green coat with a matching hat which she wears on her way to the diner in the mornings. With this outfit, Tiana wears her hair in a low ponytail wrapped up in a green band.

Originally, at Charlotte's masquerade ball, Tiana wore a Renaissance costume with honey yellow and a light green/brown as its primary colors. Later that same night, she dons her iconic blue princess gown loaned to her by Charlotte. The dress also came with a matching tiara as well as a necklace complete with a blue diamond and light blue opera gloves. During her confrontation with Dr. Facilier, Tiana was put in a white sleeveless gown with golden straps, diamond earrings, a golden necklace, and a white feather resembling the classic 1920s swinger outfits. Along with this came a beige fur shawl.

Tiana's iconic lily pad outfit is a green sparkling strapless sleeveless ball gown. The gown's petticoat is a light yellow color. Along with the gown, Tiana wears light green opera gloves, green shoes to match the gown, a light blue diamond necklace with matching earrings, and a lily pad tiara to top it all off. With this outfit, Tiana's hair is pinned up in an updo bun.

Tiana's wedding outfit was a beige dress that reveals her back, with a matching Juliet cap, and transparent gloves as well as a green tiara. Her dress also consists of green linings with a flower on the shoulder. During the finale opening of Tiana's Palace, she wore another green sweater outfit with a golden tiara complete with an emerald on the top.

Abilities

Tiana showcasing her culinary skills by creating her renowned beignets.

Culinary Expert: From early in the film, it is revealed that Tiana is a natural expert in the culinary arts. She is able to dice and chop a variety of vegetables at incredible speeds and cook a delicious meal out of very little. She can recognize the ingredients needed for the dish, and Tiana was even able to transform Mama Odie's nauseous soup to perfection. The fact that Tiana baked five hundred beignets for Charlotte's masquerade ball that was the next day means Tiana is a competent enough cook. Tiana's gift has been pointed out on several occasions, by her father, and by Naveen.
Physical Coordination: From working as a waitress, Tiana has excellent balance and hand/eye coordination. She could balance four trays of food on her head, hands, and a right foot that were tossed one after the other before balancing three trays on her head and hands.
Ingenuity: Tiana has intelligence, too, because she built a raft when it doesn't appear she was taught how to build one. She was smart enough to flick her tongue out to grab Dr. Facilier's talisman to break it. Tiana is the only princess with a real job, and considering she didn't go to college, she has knowledge of the economy to run her business, even though people underestimated her.
Adaptability: Tiana showcased her relatively quick adaptability as a frog; she could hop fast enough to get away from Stella considering she became a frog not long before that. She avoided getting eaten by a crane, one of the natural predators of frogs. When a group of alligators tried to eat her and Naveen, Tiana swam away without being caught and, unlike Naveen, found a hiding spot. Furthermore, Tiana had enough physical strength as a frog to escape from a hunter's grasp by bending back his fingers with her feet.
Communication with animals: In the chapter book continuation of the film, The Stolen Jewel, it is revealed that both Tiana and Naveen hold the ability to communicate with animals, having kept that ability from their time as frogs.

Rapunzel
“I am the lost princess, aren't I?”
―Rapunzel to Gothel
Rapunzel is the protagonist of Disney's 2010 animated feature film, Tangled. She is the princess of the kingdom of Corona, known for her long, magical, golden hair. As a child, Rapunzel was abducted by a wicked crone and locked away in a remote tower for eighteen years—during which, she became fascinated with a phenomenon involving "floating lights" that would only appear on her birthday. With the aid of the handsome thief, Flynn Rider, Rapunzel escaped her tower to learn more about the lights and pursue her dream of exploring the outside world.

Rapunzel is loosely based on the protagonist of the classic German fairy tale Rapunzel by the Brothers Grimm. She is the tenth official Disney Princess and the first to originate from a fully computer-animated film.
Background
Eighteen years before the events of Tangled, Rapunzel's parents, King Frederic and Queen Arianna of Corona were anticipating their firstborn. Unfortunately, very late in her pregnancy, the queen fell ill with what would surely result in her death, as well as her child's. Fearing the death of his love, the King dispatched multitudes of soldiers and villagers alongside the populace to search for a rumored magic flower, created by a single drop of sunlight, with the potential to heal illnesses.


The King and Queen celebrate Rapunzel's birth with a floating lantern.

After much searching, the flower, long hoarded by a woman named Mother Gothel, who has kept herself young by singing a song to it, is miraculously located and boiled into medicine to cure the queen of her illness. With the help of the flower, the queen makes a full recovery and soon gives birth to a healthy baby girl, named Rapunzel who, unlike her brunette parents, has beautiful, golden hair. To celebrate her birth, a floating lantern with the emblem of the sun (the Corona symbol) was released into the sky amongst the people of Corona. The peace did not last long, however. Determined to retrieve the flower that kept her young and alive for hundreds of years, Mother Gothel broke into the castle late one night and sang the song to Rapunzel's hair. Discovering that Rapunzel's hair retained the flower's healing powers. Gothel attempted to cut a piece off for herself, only to find that the lock lost its magic and became brown. Frustrated and desperate, Gothel kidnapped the princess and fled to her tower, hidden within an alcove deep in the forest. To protect Rapunzel's hair, Gothel raised Rapunzel as her own daughter and taught her to sing the flower's song. To further ensure her magic supply was plentiful, Gothel continuously brushed the hair to further its growth. Although Rapunzel wished to leave the tower, Gothel warned her of a dangerous world beyond the tower walls, full of selfish people that desired to steal her hair and abuse her power.

Meanwhile, the kingdom searched far and wide for their missing princess, but to no avail. As a result, each year on Rapunzel's birthday, the King, Queen, and the entire kingdom release thousands of lanterns into the night sky, in hopes that one day, their lost princess will return.

One night, while in the tower alone, Rapunzel would encounter a baby chameleon at her tower window, being followed by a venomous snake. The chameleon is bitten by the snake and dies from poisoning, though Rapunzel is able to both rid the tower of the snake and revive the deceased chameleon with the power of her hair. The chameleon reveals itself to be alone in the world, something Rapunzel relates to, as Gothel would leave her alone in the tower for lengthy periods of time frequently. Rapunzel names the chameleon "Pascal", and to remedy their mutual loneliness, invites him to live with her, so they may remain by each other's side from that night forward and becoming best friends.

Official Description
Rapunzel may have lived her entire life locked inside a hidden tower, but Rapunzel is no damsel in distress. The girl with the 70 feet of golden hair is an energetic, inquisitive teenager who fills her days with art, books, and imagination. Rapunzel is full of curiosity about the outside world, and she can't help but feel that her true destiny lies outside the lonely tower walls. Rapunzel has always obeyed Mother Gothel by staying hidden away and keeping her magical hair a secret... but with her 18th birthday just a day away, she is fed up with her sheltered life and ready for adventure. When a charming thief seeks refuge in her tower, Rapunzel defies Gothel and seizes the opportunity to answer the call of the kingdom. With the unwilling Flynn Rider along for the journey, Rapunzel leaves the tower for the first time, and begins a hilarious, hair-raising journey that will untangle many secrets along the way.
Development
Disney animator, Glen Keane became interested in directing an animated film based on Rapunzel, as he was intrigued by the concept of a "person that was born with this gift inside her and it had to come out", which is reminiscent to his experience working as an animator at Walt Disney Animation Studios.[2] Keane eventually resigned as director after suffering a heart attack in 2008 and Nathan Greno and Byron Howard were hired to replace him.[3] Kean however did remain involved as an executive producer of the film and as Rapunzel's Supervising animator.[4]

Walt Disney originally wanted to do an animated film based on "Rapunzel" following the success of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs in 1937 but it was abandoned due to story problems. According to Keane, this was due to the original fairy tale taking place within a tower. To overcome this, the writers were to develop a way of "bringing Rapunzel out of the tower".[5] During the development of the film, when it was under the title as Rapunzel Unbraided, Keane described the film as a "Shrek-like version of the film" before ultimately deciding to return to the original roots of the Brothers Grimm fairy tale.[6]

In addition, Broadway actress and singer Kristin Chenoweth, who was originally cast as Rapunzel under the working title of Rapunzel Unbraided reveals that at some point Rapunzel was intended to be a squirrel.[7]

Voice
In addition to Chenoweth who was originally cast as Rapunzel while the film was still titled Rapunzel Unbraided under Keane's direction,[7] Natalie Portman[8] and Reese Witherspoon were also considered for the role of Rapunzel.[9] In addition, Witherspoon was also intended to serve as an executive producer on the film. Witherspoon eventually left the project due to creative differences in regard to suggestions towards the film's script. Following Witherspoon's resignation from the project, Rapunzel remained uncast for quite some time, further jeopardizing the film's already troubled pre-production.[10]

Soon, the directors continued to audition hundreds of young actresses in the hopes of finding Rapunzel's voice, amongst them being Kristen Bell and Idina Menzel,[11] before finally casting pop-singer and actress Mandy Moore. Moore, a lifelong fan of Disney films, described the opportunity to voice a Disney character as "the ultimate fantasy". Initially, after hearing the role was being sought at the time deterred her from auditioning in favor of avoiding disappointment. After she made up her mind, she auditioned for the role twice.[12] Moore had no idea on what her character looked like, because, in terms of visual aid, she was only provided with rough, incomplete sketches and storyboards, while "everything else had to be explained" by Howard and Greno. The majority of the images were created by Moore in her own mind.[13]

Personality
Rapunzel is a spirited and determined young woman. Throughout her adolescence, she's dreamed of escaping her tower to experience the outside world. Due to the strict order of her sole parental figure, Gothel, however, she remained inside the tower. The use of manipulation and emotional abuse in her upbringing by Gothel has led Rapunzel to believe that the world is highly dangerous, and that remaining in the confines of her sheltered walls is in her best interest. Additional misfortunes born through Rapunzel's upbringing would include such traits as anxiety and low self-esteem. Gothel would often victimize herself whenever she and Rapunzel would hit a bump in their relationship, riddling the latter with guilt, which would, in turn, motivate her to obey Gothel's commands in hopes of making amends. This was all according to plan for Gothel, who relied on Rapunzel's emotional instability to forever maintain control over the princess. With Gothel possessing such a strong emotional hold - having forced Rapunzel to believe she was her only source of security and comfort in a dangerous and unforgiving world - the odds against Rapunzel were high.

Nevertheless, what separates Rapunzel from what could be classified as a "damsel-in-distress" is her willingness to step outside her comfort zone and take on the unknown for the sake of experiencing her dreams. Despite being fearful and at times hesitant, she pushes herself forward to pursue her ambitions.

Additionally, she takes matters into her own hands several times throughout the film and cunningly manipulates situations to end in her favor, such as forcing the thief Flynn Rider to act as her guide to the kingdom of Corona after he broke into her tower. After learning the truth behind Mother Gothel and her motives, Rapunzel became fierce, immediately rejected Gothel, and strongly disapproved of any further abuse. With such will and devotion towards herself and what she values, Rapunzel proves to be a force of nature, in her own right.

As mentioned above, Rapunzel is spirited and takes great enjoyment in virtually everything life has to offer. When trapped in her tower, she engaged in various activities such as art and music, creating a vibrant home filled with color and personality, and proving herself to be talented and expressive. When she finally escapes her tower, Rapunzel finds beauty in all she sees, from nature to a group of seemingly gruesome thugs. So much so that Rapunzel is often responsible for quite a few spontaneous, yet uplifting parties so jovial that practically every bystander would join in with zeal. This is seen during "I've Got a Dream" and during the Festival of Lights.

Rapunzel is very social in this regard and values her loved ones deeply. This is especially seen through her relationship with Eugene. Rapunzel was able to bypass the thief's roguish nature and managed to bring out his more noble and genuine side. With love and respect for one another, Rapunzel and Eugene formed a relationship built on trust, understanding, and devotion—a relationship which would help them better themselves individually and lead to the ultimate realization of what they truly want in life.

Physical appearance
Rapunzel is a very beautiful 18-year old (in the film) young woman with fair skin, rosy cheeks, large green eyes, brown eyelashes and eyebrows, and light freckles around her nose. She's 5'1", with a slender frame and slightly wide hips. She is famously known for her long golden blonde hair which is roughly around 70 feet in length, though her hair is naturally brown like her parents', as when it is cut, it turns that color. At the end of the film, Eugene cuts her hair with a shard of the broken mirror, to free her from Gothel, turning it brown and chin length.

Rapunzel's dress is a traditional German dress called a "dirndl", with a longer skirt than that of a normal dirndl. Her dress has a purple theme with a pink accent. The dress consists of a lavender corset top laced with a pink ribbon. The skirt is purple and decorated with swirling and floral designs in pink, dark purple, and white. She wears a white petticoat underneath. The skirt's hemline is above her ankles, but well below her calves. Her sleeves at the top are short, puffed, and striped with pink and lavender; the rest are long and it is pale baby pink with white lace at the hems. She usually does not wear shoes and dislikes wearing them. At the Kingdom Dance, she wears her hair in a thick braid with smaller braids woven in and adorned with various flowers.

Rapunzel's homecoming dress has a white lacing on the neckline and the sleeves. It has a pink bodice with swirly patterns on it and a corset lacing at the back. The skirt is purplish-pink with similar patterns that are found on her main dress and she wears her tiara.

Powers and Abilities
Powers
Prehensile Hair: Rapunzel can use her extremely long hair to grasp and manipulate objects and people with precise accuracy. On many occasions, she has been shown using her hair as a rope to swing around, a lasso to grab/hold objects and people, or even as a whip in combat. Her hair also appears to be incredibly lightweight, as she is quite agile and is able to move around very easily despite its immense size.
Healing Incantation (formerly): Channeling the power of the Sundrop Flower, Rapunzel was able to use her hair to heal both minor and fatal wounds, and reverse aging to a certain degree. The subject to be healed must have had physical contact with her hair in order for the incantation to work when sung, which made Rapunzel's hair emit a glowing yellow light as the incantation activated. Using the Sundrop's power, Rapunzel was able to slow Gothel's aging and restore her youth and beauty. Although her hair was later cut by Eugene, therefore losing its power, her tears turned out to have healing powers, as she was able to bring Eugene back to life after Gothel fatally stabbed him. It is unknown if Rapunzel's actual body had the Sundrop's regeneration abilities, but it may be that the Sundrop's power merged with her soul, as she seemed to be able to bring love, happiness and harmony wherever she went. It is also possible that Rapunzel actually released the drop of sunlight that created the Sundrop through her tears. As such, her healing tears may have been a one-off ability. However, it is still unclear how her healing powers worked when not channeled through her hair. Rapunzel appears to have lost this ability after her hair grew back during the events of Tangled: Before Ever After, due to now processing the decaying abilities of the Moonstone.
Unbreakable Hair (formerly): Rapunzel's hair has become indestructible after growing back during the events of Tangled: Before Ever After. Her hair appears to have taken on the strength of the Black Rocks (which caused her hair to grow back after she touched them), as it is unusually resilient and impervious to any harm or damage, even from weapons. On some occasions, Rapunzel's hair is able to form an extremely durable, glowing shield around her and her allies, protecting them from harm or damage. On some occasions, her hair was shown to glow yellow when she was near the Black Rocks, although this appears to have ceased upon Cassandra's attainment of the Moonstone Opal. It was revealed that this ability was granted by the Moonstone itself to protect her and the Sundrop in her journey to reunite both elements in the Dark Kingdom, and she later loses this ability when Cassandra separates the Sundrop from her, although she briefly regains it after Cassandra gives her a chipped sliver of the Moonstone. Rapunzel loses this ability again when she cuts her own hair in order to defeat Zhan Tiri and reunite the Sundrop and Moonstone.
Shock Wave Generation (formerly): Rapunzel was able to trigger massive shock waves when in physical contact with the Black Rocks. When she touched the rocks, her hair glowed bright yellow, and she was able to build walls of new rocks to burst from the ground and destroy her opponents/targets. Rapunzel has not been seen using this ability after Cassandra gained ownership of the Moonstone Opal, so it is assumed that she lost this ability, despite attempting to use this ability in "Beyond the Corona Walls".
Decay Incantation (formerly): By singing the Decay Incantation, Rapunzel's hair can suck the life out of everything near her, whether it be living beings or inanimate objects, causing them to rot and die. This power is almost the exact opposite of the Healing Incantation, but with one crucial difference: she is forced into a trance where she cannot stop, and as such, relies on her friends to break her out of it and return her to normal. This incantation causes her hair and eyes to become black in a very sinister fashion. Her skin and clothes also appear to have withering and decaying abilities, as they burned Cassandra's right hand black and melted Varian's gloves off when they touched her.
Moonstone Opal Detection (formerly): Rapunzel's hair was able to detect the presence of the Moonstone Opal, as it glowed bright yellow whenever the Moonstone was near. This ability appears to have disappeared following Cassandra's attainment of the Moonstone.
Sun Incantation (formerly): Channeling the full power of the Sundrop, Rapunzel is able to enter a godlike state of power. Her eyes and hair glow bright yellow, and she can levitate in the air. Empowered by hope, she is able to generate and manipulate waves of pure solar energy, which she used to effortlessly destroy the Black Rocks that an enraged Cassandra propelled toward her. She also appears to be able to manipulate the Black Rocks themselves, as she was able to halt and destroy them telekinetically. Such is the extent of her power, that she was able to chip part of the Moonstone during her battle with Cassandra.
Abilities
Adaptation: Rapunzel has shown a high level of adaptability, as she was able to adjust quickly to the outside world, despite being isolated in her tower for most of her life. For example, she appears to have been able to swim when she was trapped in an underwater cave with Eugene when it is assumed that she was never taught how to swim by Gothel.
Artistry: Rapunzel is highly creative and has an aptitude for a number of different hobbies and crafts. Her most notable talent is art, as she is able to paint beautiful works such as portraits and landscapes.
Strategic Ability: Though not regarded as a warrior the way Cassandra is, Rapunzel has repeatedly outsmarted and outmaneuvered others in the name of victory. Before claiming the Sun and Moonstones, Zhan Tiri described Rapunzel as a 'worthy foe'. And even after, Rapunzel was able to outmaneuver and defeat Zhan Tiri at the height of her power.

Merida
“I am Merida! Firstborn descendant of clan DunBroch, and I'll be shootin' for my OWN hand!”
―Merida
Princess Merida is the protagonist of Disney•Pixar's 2012 animated feature film, Brave. She is a Scottish princess from the kingdom of DunBroch, the daughter of Queen Elinor and King Fergus, and the older sister of Harris, Hubert, and Hamish. Headstrong and intrepid, Merida challenged her kingdom's longstanding traditions to live a life of independence.

Merida is the eleventh official member of the Disney Princess line-up after Rapunzel, and the first to originate from a Pixar film.

Background
Merida is the headstrong and free-spirited 16-year old tomboyish, willful daughter of Queen Elinor, who rules the kingdom alongside her husband, King Fergus. Queen Elinor's expectations of her daughter cause Merida to see Elinor as being distant while also causing friction between the two. Despite Elinor's desire to see Merida as a proper royal lady, Merida is an impetuous girl who wants to take control of her own destiny. Merida has honed her skill in archery and is one of the most skilled archers ever seen. She is also skilled in sword-fighting and racing across the countryside on her horse, Angus. Despite her outgoing, forceful, headstrong, and willful personality, Merida does have a playful softness of heart; particularly when it comes to her younger triplet brothers, Harris, Hubert, and Hamish.

Official Description
Merida is a princess by birth and an adventurer by a spirit. She spends her days practicing archery, riding her horse Angus, and exploring the world around her. She loves her family, but she wants to control her own destiny.
Personality
Merida is a very bold, brave, daring, courageous, stubborn, rebellious, and headstrong girl who does not fit the stereotypical princess role. Rather than being a damsel in distress who is subservient to the customs, traditions, and social restrictions her society places on her and expects her to follow, Merida openly rebels and defies her heritage as a princess and would like for nothing more than to be a normal girl. She is very athletic and enjoys nothing more than riding her horse Angus and practicing her archery, of which she is the best in the kingdom. She also seems to be skilled in sword fighting, as shown in the Brave featurette "Cutting the Class". Merida tends to be ungraceful and has bad manners, and is extremely tomboyish.

In terms of personality, she greatly parallels and resembles her father, as the two both tend to be unruly, impulsive, and loud. However, she also does resemble her mother in terms of stubbornness and inability to listen to others.

When Merida was younger, she had a close relationship with both her mother and her father. She showed a curious side as she followed the wisps despite needing to go back to the trail and seemed to believe in the legends and myths of her kingdom, highlighting her innocence and naivety. She also tended to be playful, as shown by her playing hide-and-seek with her mother and being very hyperactive. Merida is also shown to have developed an interest in archery early on her childhood, possibly by influence from her father.

As she has grown up, Merida is still very energetic and free-spirited but has a more strained relationship with her mother (though she still holds the same good relationship with her father) and is more rebellious. She views the strict training and social etiquette that her mother teaches her as tedious and bothersome. She also thinks her mother places too much expectation on her to become the same type of person she is without listening to what she wants to be, which is true since her mother continually and strictly instructed her in how to be a "proper" princess, and arranged for the three clans to present their heirs as potential fiancés for Merida without her consent. However, Merida also hardly ever understands her mother's feelings about wanting to do what she believed would be best for Merida or properly conveying her feelings and understanding how her desire for freedom and rebelliousness could potentially and negatively affect the kingdom. Throughout the film, however, after Merida rebuilds her bond with her mother (in bear form) while they catch fish to eat at a riverbank and realizes all the trouble she has caused with her reckless actions, she proceeds to make amends, and with her mother's help, creates a diplomatic solution that allows everyone to be happy and for her to have a better understanding of the importance of her mother's role and wisdom while teaching her mother to learn to listen and understand her better.

She is also shown to be very adventurous and brave, as she enjoys wandering around the forests that surround her kingdom and even climbed the Crone's Tooth and drank from the fire falls, something her father has mentioned that only the bravest kings have done. She was also willing to defend her mother from her father after her father tried to kill her (as she was in her bear form and Fergus mistakenly believed that she in her bear form killed Elinor) and again when she shot arrows at Mor'du to protect him from attacking her father.

Unfortunately, Merida is very short-tempered and impulsive, causing her to do things without considering the consequences her actions can lead to. For example, she wanted her parents to call off the gathering for the three clans allied with the DunBroch despite the fact it could possibly lead to war. She also entered the games that would determine who would be her groom, so she could "shoot for her own hand." However, she was unaware that this would lead to a disagreement between the three clans and DunBroch clan until after she returns to the castle with her mother after going to the witch's cottage in an attempt to find a way to reverse the curse that turned Elinor into the bear. This was also shown when she bought a spell from a witch to "change her mother" without realizing the potential harm the spell could do to her or what would happen to her. Through seeing the consequences of her actions, she goes to appreciate the role her mother plays as a diplomat, especially when (due to Elinor being a bear) Merida had to act as the diplomat and settle matters herself. This also helps to mend the distance between her and Elinor.

Merida can also be slightly selfish, as shown when after feeding her mother the cake that contained the spell that would "change her mother", she ignored her mother's pain and groaning and consistently bombarded her with questions of whether she had changed her mind about the engagement, and also when she wanted to call off the gathering, despite seemingly knowing it might cause trouble as she mentions "we expect your declarations of war in the morning". However, Merida can understand when she is wrong and will do her best to fix what has happened.

Despite her impulsivity and short temper, Merida can keep a calm head in a dangerous situation, as shown when she manages to calm her mother after her mother nearly attacks and runs frantically after the wisps and when she settles the dispute between the three different clans. She is also very quick-witted, as she quickly manages to bargain the witch for a spell by offering to give her her medallion in exchange for all the wood carvings and one spell, when she realizes she could enter herself in the games as she was "the firstborn of the four clans" and could, therefore, win her own hand in marriage, along with understanding that Mor'du the bear was actually the prince from the legends who led his kingdom into a war between him and his brothers due to his selfish desire and lust for power.

Merida is kind and caring to those she cares about and who are very close to her, as shown through her interaction with her family, particularly her brothers (whom she dotes on). She is also shown to care for her horse, Angus, greatly, as she personally tends and cares for him and does not let anyone else do it for her.

Overall, Merida has grown throughout the film from a stubborn, rebellious, and defiant person to a more understanding, open-minded individual and remaining brave, courageous, kind, adventurous, free-spirited, compassionate, and loyal to those she loves the most.

Physical appearance
Merida is pale-skinned with a slender body, a round face, a light dusting of freckles, long curly red hair, and blue eyes.

At the start of the film, Merida was seen in a dark teal cotton dress that exposing bits of her undergarments from the back and on her sleeves.

Merida is dressed in a sheer turquoise gown with gold trimming and a square neckline for her coronation, along with a white headdress and a gold tiara to keep her hair in place. Eventually, she tears the dress slightly to gain better movement in her body and proper pose in holding her bow and arrows.
